



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                         10 October 2026
Expires: 13 April 2027


                        CIMD Software Statement
               draft-mcguinness-oauth-cimd-sw-stmt-latest

Abstract

   A Client ID Metadata Document carries a client's own claims, which
   can change at any time.  This specification defines a software
   statement in which a trusted party records its review of the exact
   bytes of such a document, and how an authorization server enforces
   that review when it admits the client at request time, without a
   registration.  The client presents the statement in a token or pushed
   authorization request, or publishes it where the reviewed document
   points.  Possession of the statement alone does not complete a grant:
   the presenter is also bound to the reviewed document.  Because the
   document remains the metadata, one review is portable across the
   authorization servers that trust its issuer.  A companion
   specification covers RFC 7591 registration.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 13 April 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Protocol Overview
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  The Software Statement
     3.1.  Metadata Digest
     3.2.  Validating a Statement
     3.3.  Change After Review
     3.4.  Status Publication
   4.  Issuer Trust Establishment
     4.1.  Issuer and Consumer as One Server
     4.2.  Multi-Tenant Issuers
   5.  Runtime Presentation
     5.1.  Presentation Request
       5.1.1.  Authorization Endpoint
       5.1.2.  Token Endpoint
     5.2.  Pulled Statements
     5.3.  Presentation Processing
     5.4.  Sender Constraint
       5.4.1.  Public Clients
     5.5.  Reviewed Metadata
     5.6.  Grant Lifecycle
       5.6.1.  Refresh
   6.  Repeated Consumption of One Statement
   7.  Deployment Model: Centrally Curated Software
   8.  Relationship to Other Work
     8.1.  Client Attestation
     8.2.  Identity Assertions
     8.3.  OpenID Federation
     8.4.  Existing Software Statement Ecosystems
   9.  Error Responses
   10. Examples
     10.1.  Presenting at the Token Endpoint
     10.2.  Publishing a Statement for Servers to Pull
   11. Authorization Server Metadata
   12. Extension Points
   13. Security Considerations
     13.1.  Statement Theft and Replay
     13.2.  Servers That Do Not Implement This Specification
     13.3.  Copied Statements and Public Clients
     13.4.  Tenant Confusion at a Multi-Tenant Consumer
     13.5.  External Retrieval and Resource Exhaustion
     13.6.  Enforcement Bounds
     13.7.  Status Resolution
     13.8.  Document Resolution
     13.9.  Observable State
     13.10. Statement Handling
   14. Privacy Considerations
   15. IANA Considerations
     15.1.  OAuth Parameters Registry
     15.2.  Media Type Registration
     15.3.  Claims Defined Elsewhere
     15.4.  JSON Web Token Claims Registry
     15.5.  OAuth Extensions Error Registry
     15.6.  OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata Registry
     15.7.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry
   16. References
     16.1.  Normative References
     16.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   A Client ID Metadata Document [CIMD] identifies a client by a URL and
   supplies its metadata from a document the client controls; that
   metadata is the client's own claim and can change at any time.  An
   organization that reviews client software, such as a publisher
   program, an enterprise security function, or an ecosystem operator,
   has no interoperable way to record its review of a particular version
   of the document, or to have an authorization server it has never
   dealt with enforce that review.

   This specification profiles the software statement (Section 2.3 of
   [RFC7591]) for that purpose.  A statement names the client by its
   document URL and binds the review to the document's exact octets by a
   digest (Section 3.1).  An authorization server that trusts the
   statement's issuer admits the client at request time on the reviewed
   document, and no other, without creating a registration (Section 5).
   The document remains the metadata and the statement records the
   decision, so one review is portable across every authorization server
   in the statement's audience, each of which keeps its own issuer
   trust, grant policy, and token lifetime.

   A statement vouches for metadata, not for its presenter.  Possession
   of a statement alone admits nothing: the presenter proves a key the
   reviewed document carries or, for software distributed to end users,
   receives the authorization code at a redirection URI the document
   lists and no other application on the device can claim (Section 5.4).

   This specification defines the statement, its validation, issuer
   trust (Section 4), and runtime admission (Section 5).  It does not
   define how a client obtains a statement.  [REGISTRATION] defines
   consumption of the same statement in an [RFC7591] registration
   request; it builds on this specification, which does not depend on
   it.  Section 7 describes the motivating deployment, and Section 8
   relates this specification to other work.

1.1.  Protocol Overview

   The following non-normative sequence summarizes runtime admission:

   1.  Using its Client ID Metadata Document URL as client_id, the
       client presents its statement in a token request or, for a
       redirect flow, a pushed authorization request, or publishes it at
       the software_statements_uri its document names (Section 5.1,
       Section 5.2).

   2.  The authorization server validates the statement (Section 3),
       resolves the reviewed document (Section 5.5), and verifies the
       sender constraint against it (Section 5.4).

   3.  The request proceeds under that document's metadata, and no
       persistent registration is created.

   4.  The state on which the rest of the grant depends persists as an
       establishment (Section 5.6).

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   This specification uses terminology from [RFC6749] (OAuth), [RFC7591]
   (client metadata and software statements), and [CIMD] (Client ID
   Metadata Documents).

   This specification defines the following terms.

   Issuing Authorization Server:  The authorization server that makes
      the issuance decision and signs the software statement.

   Trusting Authorization Server:  An authorization server that consumes
      a software statement, at runtime under this specification or at
      registration under [REGISTRATION].

   Runtime Presentation:  The consumption of a validated software
      statement presented in a token request or pushed authorization
      request, or pulled from where the client's document points
      (Section 5.2), applying the metadata of the document the statement
      vouches for without creating a persistent client registration.

   Establishment:  The durable state a successful runtime presentation
      creates for the grant it opens, enumerated in Section 5.6.

   Proven Key:  The key for which the presenter demonstrates possession
      during runtime presentation.  The accepted proof path binds this
      key to the statement as specified in Section 5.4.

   Refusal Record:  State an authorization server holds when it has
      learned that a statement ceased to be acceptable before its
      expiry, whether from a status it resolved (Section 3.2) or from
      its own operator.  Wherever this specification requires a
      statement to be current, a statement matching a refusal record is
      not current.  A refusal derived from a resolved status lasts only
      as long as that status: a later resolution supersedes it, and a
      server MUST NOT retain such a refusal once a later resolution no
      longer supports it.  A refusal its operator entered persists on
      the operator's own terms.

3.  The Software Statement

   The software statement is a compact JWT [RFC7519] protected by JWS
   [RFC7515].  Although [RFC7591] permits a MAC, a statement issued
   under this specification MUST use an asymmetric digital signature so
   trusting servers need not receive an issuer-held symmetric key.  The
   issuer and trusting authorization server MUST follow [RFC8725]
   algorithm-verification guidance.  The none algorithm and symmetric
   algorithms MUST NOT be used.  An issuer advertises its signing
   algorithms in software_statement_signing_alg_values_supported
   (Section 11).

   The JOSE header MUST include the kid header parameter, identifying
   the signing key within the issuer's statement key set (Section 11).
   The JOSE header MUST also include the typ header parameter with the
   value software-statement+jwt, applying Section 3.11 of [RFC8725].
   This value is the media type application/software-statement+jwt
   (Section 15.2) with the application/ prefix omitted (Section 4.1.9 of
   [RFC7515]).  Explicit typing prevents confusion with other JWTs from
   the same issuer.  Extensions can add claims; an incompatible revision
   would use a new typ value.

   A statement asserts that its issuer evaluated the Client ID Metadata
   Document whose content the digest identifies, and vouches for that
   document to any party that accepts the issuer.  The JWT payload MUST
   contain the following claims.

   iss:  REQUIRED.  The issuer identifier of the issuing authorization
      server, as defined by [RFC8414].

   sub:  REQUIRED.  The exact client identifier URL presented in the
      request that produced the statement.

   aud:  OPTIONAL.  One or more authorization server issuer identifiers
      ([RFC8414]) restricting which authorization servers may accept the
      statement.  Where the claim is present, a trusting authorization
      server MUST reject the statement unless one of its locally
      configured audience identifiers exactly matches a value in it.
      Where the claim is absent, the statement is unrestricted, and
      acceptance rests on the authorization server's configured trust in
      the issuer and its identifier scope (Section 4).  Omitting the
      claim lets one review serve every authorization server that trusts
      the issuer, but also lets any holder of a copy use it at any of
      them.  Where statement_uses permits registration, a holder can
      always choose registration, which requires no key.  An issuer
      SHOULD therefore name an audience, and omit it only where it
      accepts that any server trusting it may register the software on
      the strength of a copy ([REGISTRATION]).

   aud_tenant:  OPTIONAL.  A tenant identifier at a trusting
      authorization server, as [IDJAG] defines the claim, naming the
      tenant in which this statement's decision applies.  A statement
      whose decision is confined to one tenant MUST carry it, and a
      trusting authorization server MUST reject a statement carrying it
      unless the value identifies the tenant the request belongs to.  A
      trusting authorization server MUST NOT read the claim's absence as
      meaning the statement applies in every tenant, since an issuer
      also omits the claim where the authorization server is single-
      tenant or where the issuer does not know the identifier.  An
      authorization server that requires a tenant-scoped decision and
      finds no aud_tenant rejects the statement rather than choosing
      between those readings.  A listing review that applies wherever
      its aud reaches carries no aud_tenant.

   statement_uses:  OPTIONAL.  A JSON array identifying the permitted
      uses of the statement: registration ([REGISTRATION]) and
      presentation (Section 5).  A trusting authorization server MUST
      reject a statement for a use the array does not name, treating a
      member it does not recognize as naming no use it serves.  If the
      claim is absent, only presentation is permitted; an issuer that
      intends a statement for registration includes registration.
      Because registration requires no key and a statement published for
      pulling is readable by anyone (Section 5.2), a statement is usable
      at registration only where its issuer says so ([REGISTRATION]).  A
      delivery renewing a registration ([REGISTRATION]) is a use at
      registration; a refresh replacement (Section 5.6.1) and a pulled
      statement are presentation.

   iat:  REQUIRED.  A NumericDate value representing the time at which
      the software statement was issued.  An issuer MUST NOT issue two
      statements for a given iss and sub pair with the same iat, and
      MUST ensure the value increases strictly across its signing nodes.
      The order in which the issuer made its decisions is thus
      recoverable from the statements themselves.  Trusting
      authorization servers rely on that order when one statement
      replaces another (Section 5.6.1, [REGISTRATION]), so a statement
      back-dated for clock skew cannot serve as a replacement.

   exp:  REQUIRED.  A NumericDate value representing the expiration
      time.  A trusting authorization server MUST reject an expired
      statement.

   jti:  REQUIRED.  A unique identifier for the statement within the
      issuer's namespace.

   cimd_digest:  REQUIRED.  The metadata digest (Section 3.1) of the
      Client ID Metadata Document the issuer evaluated.  It binds the
      statement to the exact document content evaluated, so any party
      can determine whether the client's currently published metadata
      still matches it.

   status:  OPTIONAL.  The status claim as [STATUSLIST] defines it,
      locating this statement in the issuer's Status List Token.  It
      lets an issuer end a decision before exp without a trusting
      authorization server contacting the issuer for each statement.
      Section 3.4 requires an issuer that publishes status to carry the
      claim in every statement it issues from then on, since a trusting
      authorization server cannot otherwise distinguish a statement that
      omits the claim from one whose issuer publishes no status.

   A statement issued under this specification MUST NOT contain client
   metadata claims.  The reviewed metadata is the document the digest
   names; metadata copied into the statement would duplicate what the
   digest binds and reopen questions of precedence and partial review.
   Vouching for particular members without binding the whole document
   requires an extension defining what a partial review asserts and how
   a trusting authorization server applies it (Section 12).

   [CIMD] permits a Client ID Metadata Document to carry a
   software_statement member.  A trusting authorization server MUST NOT
   consume a statement of this profile from that member, and MUST NOT
   treat that member as satisfying any requirement of this
   specification.  A statement of this profile cannot describe the
   document that carries it, since its digest would have to cover its
   own bytes; one found there names an earlier version.  The member may
   also carry statements of other kinds, which this specification does
   not evaluate.

   The issuer sets the lifetime, and any audience restriction, by
   policy.  A short lifetime bounds exposure and keeps the review fresh.
   At an authorization server implementing the registration-validity
   model of [REGISTRATION], however, the lifetime is also the
   registration's validity and so sets the renewal cadence both parties
   must sustain.

   The sub claim is the client identifier URL, not the local client_id
   assigned through [RFC7591] registration.  A trusting authorization
   server MAY use sub to correlate registrations and apply per-client
   policy (Section 6).

3.1.  Metadata Digest

   The metadata digest is the unpadded base64url-encoded SHA-256 hash
   [RFC6234] of the retrieved representation body after removal of
   content coding.  The body is not transcoded, normalized, or re-
   serialized; any byte order mark or trailing newline is included.
   Retrieval for digest purposes MUST NOT use content negotiation: the
   retrieving party sends Accept: application/json and no other variant
   selection, and decodes any content coding before digesting.  When
   retrieving a document for digest purposes, the retrieving party MUST
   follow the retrieval rules of [CIMD], including its prohibition on
   automatically following redirects.

   A document served as negotiated variants therefore cannot carry a
   usable statement, since independent retrieving parties obtain
   different octets; this follows from the digest and is not a
   requirement on what a publisher may serve.

   An issuer computes the digest over the document it evaluated, and a
   trusting authorization server computes it over the document it
   retrieves; equal digests show the two are the same octets
   (Section 5.5).

   Three retrieval conditions affect the comparison:

   *  [CIMD] recommends reading no more than a bounded number of octets
      and treating a longer response as an error.  A digest computed
      over a truncated read is not the digest of the document, so a
      trusting authorization server MUST treat a response exceeding its
      configured bound as a retrieval failure rather than digesting what
      it read.  For a runtime presentation, retrying cannot succeed, so
      the request is rejected with invalid_client rather than
      temporarily_unavailable (Section 9), except on refresh-token use,
      where Section 5.6.1 takes precedence.  [REGISTRATION] defines the
      rejection at a registration endpoint.

   *  A shared cache may hold a variant selected for some other request.
      A server MUST NOT compare a digest against any representation
      other than one it retrieved itself, stored under this section, or
      retained as [REGISTRATION] permits.  A 304 Not Modified response
      confirms that the stored octets are still current, and that their
      digest still applies, only where it carries a strong entity tag
      equal to the one stored with those octets.  A conditional request
      with If-None-Match is evaluated with weak comparison
      (Section 13.1.2 of [RFC9110]), so a 304 without such a tag does
      not show the octets are unchanged, and the server retrieves the
      body again.

   *  Issuer and trusting authorization server must obtain identical
      octets; any condition that makes retrieval depend on who is asking
      defeats the comparison.

3.2.  Validating a Statement

   Before accepting a statement, a trusting authorization server MUST:

   *  verify that the typ JOSE header parameter carries the value
      software-statement+jwt;

   *  verify the signature under a key trusted for the exact iss value,
      obtained as Section 4 requires;

   *  verify that every required claim of Section 3 is present and of
      the correct type, rejecting a statement that omits one;

   *  validate iat and exp, rejecting an expired statement and one whose
      iat is unreasonably far in the future according to the server's
      clock-skew policy;

   *  where the statement carries aud, verify that one of its own
      audience identifiers appears in it;

   *  where the statement carries aud_tenant, verify that its value
      identifies the tenant this request belongs to, resolved before the
      statement is evaluated, by the server's own means or from a signed
      assertion it has validated, and never from a value the client
      chooses;

   *  verify that statement_uses names the use being made of the
      statement or, where the claim is absent, that the use is
      presentation;

   *  verify that sub is a client identifier URL conforming to [CIMD],
      and that it falls within the identifier scope for which this
      server accepts the issuer (Section 4);

   *  reject a statement carrying any claim registered in the IANA
      "OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata" registry, which
      Section 3 forbids, and ignore any other claim it does not
      recognize; and

   *  apply the JWT validation guidance in [RFC8725].

   Where the statement carries status and the trusting authorization
   server resolves statuses for that issuer, it MUST reject a statement
   whose status is INVALID, and MUST apply its configured policy for
   that issuer to a statement whose status is SUSPENDED.  A rejection on
   status uses the refusal-record row of Section 9, because re-
   presenting the same statement cannot succeed while that status
   stands.

   Where a trusting authorization server resolves statuses for an
   issuer, resolution follows [STATUSLIST], including its caching rules
   and its requirement to reject where the referenced index lies outside
   the list.  Such a server MAY therefore decide from a Status List
   Token it already holds within that token's validity.  A server MUST
   NOT replace a Status List Token it holds with one whose iat is
   earlier, and MUST treat one whose iat is equal but whose contents
   differ as a resolution failure.  A host serving an older token could
   otherwise restore a status the issuer has withdrawn.  An issuer gives
   each token it publishes at a list URI a later iat than the last
   (Section 3.4).

   Status constrains and never relaxes.  A statement carrying no status,
   or whose status the server cannot resolve, is bounded by exp as it
   would be otherwise, and a server MUST NOT treat status as grounds to
   accept a statement past exp.  What a server does when resolution
   fails is local policy.  Refusing makes issuer availability a
   precondition for every request the statement governs; proceeding
   leaves a withdrawn statement acceptable for the rest of its lifetime.

   A trusting authorization server accepts only configured issuers
   (Section 4) and obtains their statement signing keys from the
   software_statement_jwks_uri value in the issuer's authorization
   server metadata (Section 11), never from the statement.

   A trusting authorization server resolving the reviewed document MUST
   reject a document containing duplicate object member names, since
   parsers interpret them differently despite an identical digest.

   [REGISTRATION] defines rejections at a registration endpoint;
   rejections elsewhere use Section 9.

3.3.  Change After Review

   A review covers the document that cimd_digest identifies.  At
   registration, a digest mismatch is fatal ([REGISTRATION]), because
   the registration would otherwise record metadata no issuer reviewed.
   At runtime, a mismatch is a policy input rather than an automatic
   failure: the statement still names a document the issuer reviewed,
   and the authorization server decides how to treat the change.  At
   registration and at runtime alike, the remedy is re-issuance against
   the current document.

   Because an issuer reviews the document it retrieves from the client
   identifier URL, a changed document is always served before any
   statement over it exists; a publisher shortens that gap by arranging
   prompt review.  The statement's bounded lifetime limits how stale a
   review can become: drift that the digest comparison never observes
   still expires with the statement.

3.4.  Status Publication

   An issuing authorization server that ends decisions before their
   expiry publishes statement status as [STATUSLIST] defines and carries
   the status claim in the statements it issues (Section 3).  The
   statement records what was decided; the status list records whether
   that decision still stands.

   An issuer that publishes status:

   *  MUST publish it for every statement it issues under a given iss
      from the point it begins publishing, not for a subset, so that a
      trusting authorization server can read an absent claim as meaning
      the issuer publishes no status.  Statements issued before that
      point carry no claim, so the inference holds once those have
      expired;

   *  MUST assign each statement its own index and MUST NOT reuse an
      index across statements.  Withdrawing a statement then affects no
      other, including its replacement: withdrawing a superseded
      statement does not withdraw its replacement, and withdrawing a
      replacement does not restore its predecessor;

   *  MUST sign the Status List Token with a key published at the
      jwks_uri of its authorization server metadata [RFC8414], never
      with a statement signing key (Section 11);

   *  MUST include exp in every Status List Token it publishes, so that
      an older token cannot stand in for a newer one indefinitely; and

   *  MUST give each Status List Token it publishes at a given list URI
      an iat later than that of any token it published there before, so
      that a trusting authorization server can tell the newer of two
      apart.

   An issuer that issues a replacement narrower than the statement it
   replaces SHOULD withdraw the earlier statement.  A replacement is
   narrower when it:

   *  is over a document that no longer carries a key, redirection URI,
      or scope the earlier document carried;

   *  has a narrower aud, aud_tenant, or statement_uses; or

   *  has a shorter remaining lifetime.

   What was removed may be why the replacement was issued; a trusting
   authorization server that has not yet seen the replacement, or at
   which it does not validate, would otherwise accept the earlier
   statement until it expires.

   Status does not replace lifetime.  A trusting authorization server is
   not obliged to resolve status, so an issuer chooses exp assuming none
   does; status shortens a decision but does not bound it.

4.  Issuer Trust Establishment

   A trusting authorization server accepts statements only from
   configured issuers.  Trust is established out of band, for example
   through a marketplace publisher program or shared enterprise
   operation; this specification defines no in-band issuer discovery or
   trust decision.

   For each trusted issuer, a trusting authorization server records at
   least:

   *  the exact iss identifier it will accept;

   *  the source of that issuer's statement signing keys: the
      software_statement_jwks_uri in the issuer's authorization server
      metadata (Section 11), discovered from the configured iss as
      [RFC8414] describes, and never its jwks_uri, whose keys sign other
      artifacts;

   *  the signing algorithms it will accept from the issuer;

   *  the client identifier namespaces the issuer may attest through
      sub;

   *  the audience identifiers the issuer may name;

   *  the maximum statement lifetime it will honor, which also caps
      registration validity where the server implements the
      registration-validity model of [REGISTRATION];

   *  its policy on repeated and multiple registration (Section 6).

   These inputs, not the signature alone, define acceptance.  A trusting
   authorization server MUST derive trust from this local configuration
   and MUST NOT derive it from an iss, jku, x5u, or other key-location
   value carried in a presented statement.

   Issuer trust SHOULD be scoped as well as explicit.  Trust
   configuration SHOULD constrain each issuer to the client identifier
   namespaces it is expected to attest, for example URLs under the
   domains of the software publishers it serves.  A statement whose sub
   falls outside the issuer's configured scope MUST be rejected even
   when its signature verifies (Section 3.2).  Without such a scope, a
   compromised or over-broad issuer can mint acceptable statements about
   any client software.  For an issuer attesting software across many
   publishers, as an enterprise issuer does, the scope is the set of
   identifiers it is configured for rather than a single domain.

   Where a trusting authorization server configures an issuer whose
   decisions are confined to one of its tenants, as a customer's own
   issuer is, it SHOULD record with that configuration the client
   identifier namespaces for which the issuer's decision is required in
   that tenant.  For a client in such a namespace, only a current
   statement from the required issuer establishes reviewed software in
   that tenant, whatever other issuers' statements say.

   A server that records such a requirement MUST NOT admit software in a
   covered namespace in that tenant without a current statement from the
   required issuer, whatever its policy for clients it has not reviewed.
   Without this rule, withholding the statement would restore access the
   customer withdrew.  The requirement is configured rather than
   inferred from the statements the server sees, so a holder cannot
   evade a customer's withdrawal by presenting or publishing only a
   broader listing (Section 7).  A required issuer configured for
   software whose documents are presented review-only (Section 5.4.1)
   excludes that software from the tenant, since no statement admits it
   there.

4.1.  Issuer and Consumer as One Server

   An authorization server that issued a statement already holds the
   decision that statement records.  Where it is also the trusting
   authorization server, it MAY admit the client on that record rather
   than require the statement to be presented back to it, at
   registration or at runtime.

   Such a server MUST apply the conditions it would apply to a presented
   statement, since a decision it made is not a document it has re-read:

   *  the recorded decision is unexpired, and so is the registration
      where the validity model of [REGISTRATION] governs it;

   *  its status is current, where the server publishes status
      (Section 3.2);

   *  the document at sub has been obtained; and

   *  that document's digest equals the one recorded (Section 3.1).

   At runtime, the recorded decision replaces the presented statement,
   not the proof of who is making the request.  The request MUST meet
   the sender constraint of Section 5.4 against the reviewed document,
   as a presentation would, and a successful admission creates an
   establishment (Section 5.6).  At registration, the rules of
   [REGISTRATION] apply as they do to a statement presented there.

   A client dealing only with the server that reviewed it therefore
   presents no statement; portability matters only to other servers.

4.2.  Multi-Tenant Issuers

   Where the tenants of a reviewer serving several customers are
   independently trusted reviewing authorities, the reviewer MUST issue
   under a distinct iss for each.  Each tenant's decisions, keys,
   statuses, and watermark then stay separate, and a trusting
   authorization server configures trust per tenant as Section 4
   describes.  A statement carries no claim naming the issuer's tenant.

   If several such authorities issue under one iss, their statements
   about the same software are indistinguishable by iss and sub.  The
   watermark of Section 6 then treats the later as superseding the
   earlier: one customer's renewal invalidates the other customer's
   review for no reason that customer can observe.

5.  Runtime Presentation

   The client presents its statement in the request, or publishes it
   where its document points (Section 5.2).  The authorization server
   validates it under policy for a trusted issuer, verifies the
   presenter, and applies the reviewed document's metadata to that
   request without creating a persistent client registration, as [CIMD]
   resolution does.

5.1.  Presentation Request

   A client presents a software statement by including the following
   parameter in a token request or a pushed authorization request:

   software_statement:  REQUIRED for presentation.  The software
      statement (Section 3).  It is consumed as a runtime presentation,
      a refresh replacement (Section 5.6.1), or, where [REGISTRATION] is
      implemented, a revalidation delivery under that specification; a
      request carrying the parameter in any other role is rejected with
      invalid_request.  The authorization server MUST verify that it
      accepts the statement's issuer for the subject (Section 4), and
      MUST reject a request repeating the parameter with
      invalid_request.

   The request's client_id is the client's Client ID Metadata Document
   URL.  It MUST exactly equal the statement's sub; the authorization
   server MUST reject a presentation where they differ, with
   invalid_client.  The effective client_id is the statement's sub, and
   the authorization server assigns none.

   The request MUST also carry the proof required by Section 5.4: client
   authentication under a method the reviewed document specifies, a DPoP
   proof with a key that document carries, or, for a public client, the
   PKCE and dpop_jkt binding of Section 5.4.1.  A successful
   presentation establishes the client for the request and for the grant
   state derived from it (Section 5.6).

   At the token endpoint, a runtime presentation is valid on a request
   using:

   *  the client_credentials grant;

   *  the JWT or SAML assertion grants of [RFC7521]; or

   *  another grant an authorization server names in
      software_statement_presentation_grant_types_supported
      (Section 11).

   Authorization-code redemption and refresh-token use continue an
   existing grant and follow Section 5.6 and Section 5.6.1 instead.  A
   request that asks an authorization server to issue a software
   statement, rather than to consume one, MUST NOT carry the
   software_statement parameter.

   An authorization server advertises support through
   software_statement_presentation_supported (Section 11).

5.1.1.  Authorization Endpoint

   Presentation in an authorization request MUST use a pushed
   authorization request [RFC9126]; a pulled statement, which never
   travels in a request, needs no pushed authorization request
   (Section 5.2).  The pushed authorization request endpoint processes
   the statement and its proof as Section 5.3 describes.  The subsequent
   authorization request MUST use a client_id exactly equal to the
   establishment's sub and MUST NOT include the software_statement
   parameter.  A statement therefore never appears in a front-channel
   URL.

5.1.2.  Token Endpoint

   The client includes the parameter in an eligible token request
   (Section 5.1).

5.2.  Pulled Statements

   A client can publish its statements rather than present them.  Its
   Client ID Metadata Document then carries the following client
   metadata member:

   software_statements_uri:  OPTIONAL.  URL, in a Client ID Metadata
      Document, at which the client publishes software statements about
      itself.  The member has no meaning in a registration request.  The
      URL MUST use the https scheme.  A request to it returns a JSON
      object whose software_statements member is an array of statements
      (Section 3), each a string in JWS compact serialization.  The
      metadata digest covers this member (Section 3.1), so changing
      where statements are found changes the document every statement
      names.

   An authorization server that supports pulled statements MAY retrieve
   this URL when it resolves the document of a client that presented no
   statement.  In retrieving it, the server:

   *  sends a GET request with Accept: application/json, does not
      automatically follow redirects, and accepts only a 200 response
      with a JSON media type;

   *  applies the protections [CIMD] sets for URLs a document contains
      and the bounds of Section 13.5;

   *  bounds the response size and the number of statements it examines
      separately from the document's, since several issuers' statements
      outgrow a document-sized bound and a host can pad the array;

   *  discards statements from issuers it has not configured before
      verifying any signature; and

   *  caches a successful response no longer than it caches the
      document, and does not cache a failure, as [CIMD] requires of the
      document.

   The authorization server MAY revalidate a cached response from that
   URL with a conditional request, as it may the document (Section 3.1).
   Both the document and this URL are retrieved before any statement
   exists to validate, so the ordering of Section 5.3 applies from the
   first statement verified onward.

   The server considers only statements that:

   *  have a sub equal to the document's client identifier;

   *  validate under Section 3.2;

   *  permit presentation (Section 3); and

   *  have a cimd_digest equal to the digest of the document it
      resolved.

   It ignores the rest, since anyone able to publish at the URL can
   place anything there.

   Where its trust configuration requires an issuer for this client
   (Section 4), the server applies only that issuer's statement, and
   where none remains, the client is not reviewed.  Otherwise, where
   more than one statement remains, the server keeps only the latest iat
   from each issuer and applies any one of those, subject to the
   watermark of Section 6.  A pulled statement the server does not apply
   does not advance the watermark.  The server then continues from step
   4 of Section 5.3, with the pulled statement in place of a presented
   one and the document already resolved; the selection above satisfies
   the client_id rule of step 2.

   The presenter of a pulled statement is bound as for a presented
   statement (Section 5.4), at the point the request allows:

   *  At the token endpoint, the request's client authentication or DPoP
      proof binds it, as for a presentation there.

   *  At the authorization endpoint, binding completes at code
      redemption, before any token is issued.  A confidential client
      authenticates there with a key carried by the octets the server
      digested, not one that only a later retrieval of the document
      carries, and that key becomes the establishment's proven key.  A
      public client's authorization request is subject to Section 5.4.1,
      including PKCE and dpop_jkt, and redemption proves the dpop_jkt
      key.

   *  A public client opening a new grant at the token endpoint has
      nothing to bind, so a statement pulled for it is review-only
      (Section 5.4.1), as is one pulled for a document whose redirection
      URIs that section does not accept.  Code redemption and refresh
      continue an establishment and keep the binding it already has
      (Section 5.6, Section 5.6.1).

   Where retrieval does not complete or no statement remains, the server
   applies its policy for Client ID Metadata Document clients it has not
   reviewed.  Where that policy requires reviewed software, it rejects
   the request with temporarily_unavailable if retrieval did not
   complete and with statement_required if no statement remains.  A
   retrieval failure is never a withdrawal.

   On refresh, where Section 5.6.1 needs a replacement for an
   establishment created from a pulled statement, the server pulls again
   and applies the newest statement with the recorded statement's iss
   and sub as the replacement under that section.  Where the newest is
   the recorded statement itself, nothing is replaced, and currency
   rests on that statement as Section 5.6.1 describes.  If the re-pull
   does not complete or yields no replacement, the refresh fails as
   Section 5.6.1 provides; a reviewed grant never continues under the
   policy for clients the server has not reviewed.

   An authorization server advertises support through
   software_statement_pull_supported (Section 11).

5.3.  Presentation Processing

   On receiving a presentation, the authorization server proceeds as
   follows, rejecting as Section 9 defines at the first failure:

   1.  Validate the statement (Section 3.2), completing every check that
       does not require a client-controlled network retrieval before
       performing any such retrieval.

   2.  Verify the statement requirements of Section 3 and the client_id
       rule of Section 5.1.

   3.  Resolve the reviewed document (Section 5.5), which is the first
       step requiring a client-controlled retrieval.

   4.  Verify the sender constraint against that document (Section 5.4),
       then evaluate the request against its metadata (Section 5.5).

   5.  On success, create the establishment (Section 5.6).

5.4.  Sender Constraint

   A runtime presentation MUST be sender-constrained by a key the
   statement attests or, under Section 5.4.1, by the key the presenter
   binds through dpop_jkt.  The presenter proves possession of that key
   through the applicable client authentication method or a DPoP proof
   [RFC9449].  The proof MUST be bound to the current request and
   validated with the replay protections of that mechanism.

   Except as Section 5.4.1 provides, the proven key MUST appear in the
   jwks or at the jwks_uri of the reviewed document (Section 5.5).
   Where the reviewed document specifies a client authentication method,
   the presenter MUST use it, and where the grant type requires client
   authentication a DPoP proof does not satisfy that requirement
   ([RFC9449]).  The authorization server MUST reject a presentation
   without such a proof, or whose proven key the reviewed document does
   not carry.  A document carrying a redirection URI another application
   could claim is presented review-only whatever its authentication
   method (Section 5.4.1).

   A statement whose reviewed document carries no key material can be
   consumed at registration where its statement_uses claim permits
   ([REGISTRATION]).  Where the document declares
   token_endpoint_auth_method of none, such a statement can also be
   consumed at the pushed authorization request endpoint under
   Section 5.4.1.  Endorsement of a key the statement does not name, by
   a client attester or by an issuer the statement delegates to, is left
   to extensions (Section 12).

   A key at the document's jwks_uri is retrieved at presentation time;
   if retrieval fails, the key is unverified and the presentation is
   rejected with temporarily_unavailable.  A server MAY reuse a recently
   retrieved key set within ordinary HTTP caching bounds, subject to a
   maximum reuse period of its own choosing; it MUST NOT let the
   client's cache directives alone determine how long a removed key
   continues to verify (Section 13.5).

5.4.1.  Public Clients

   Software distributed to end users cannot hold a key its reviewed
   document carries, since a key in a distributed binary is in every
   copy and identifies the software, not the installation.  Such a
   document declares token_endpoint_auth_method of none and carries no
   key material.

   A presentation at the pushed authorization request endpoint, or a
   pulled statement at the authorization endpoint (Section 5.2), is
   bound instead by its reviewed redirection URIs where the client's
   reviewed document declares token_endpoint_auth_method of none and
   none of its redirection URIs is one another application could claim
   (see below).  For such a presentation, the authorization server:

   *  MUST require PKCE [RFC7636] with the S256 method;

   *  MUST require the presenter to bind a key it holds, through the
      dpop_jkt parameter [RFC9449], and records that key as the proven
      key of the establishment (Section 5.6); and

   *  MUST NOT require that key to appear in the reviewed document.

   The reviewed document, not the proven key, admits the statement here:
   an authorization code opened by such a presentation is delivered only
   to a redirection URI the issuer reviewed, so a holder of a copied
   statement cannot receive the code (Section 13.3).  The proven key
   identifies the installation the grant belongs to; code redemption and
   refresh demonstrate possession of that same key (Section 5.6,
   Section 5.6.1).

   A presentation is review-only where the reviewed document carries any
   redirection URI that another application on the same device could
   claim: a non-https URI, such as a private-use scheme or an http
   loopback redirection URI, or an https URI whose host is a loopback
   address or localhost.  Desktop software commonly redirects this way.
   One such URI makes the whole document review-only, whatever
   authentication method it declares.  The application that claims the
   URI receives the code (Section 13.3), so neither the reviewed
   redirection URIs nor a key shipped in every copy of the software can
   bind the presenter.

   A review-only presentation creates no establishment, admits nothing,
   and does not advance the watermark of Section 6, since it changes
   nothing for the software's other instances.  The authorization server
   proceeds as it would for the same Client ID Metadata Document client
   presenting no statement.  The statement of a review-only presentation
   MUST NOT satisfy a policy requiring reviewed software, and the
   authorization server SHOULD NOT present that review to the user as an
   assurance about the presenter.  Where the server's policy requires
   reviewed software, it rejects a review-only client with
   unauthorized_client, since no statement can make such a client
   reviewed.

   For a review-only presentation, the authorization server MAY record
   the statement's issuer for audit and inventory.  For such a
   presentation, it MAY refuse the request where the statement's status
   shows a withdrawal, since status constrains and never relaxes
   (Section 3.2), subject to the bounds of Section 13.5.

   A presentation at the token endpoint under Section 5.1 opens no
   redirect and has nothing to bind it, so an authorization server MUST
   reject one from a client whose reviewed document carries no key
   material, with invalid_client.  A statement pulled for such a client
   at the token endpoint is instead review-only (Section 5.2).

5.5.  Reviewed Metadata

   Having validated the statement, and before verifying the proof
   (Section 5.3), the authorization server MUST obtain the Client ID
   Metadata Document at the statement's sub, only by retrieval or from
   octets it has already digested for that identifier, and compare its
   digest with cimd_digest.  Where octets it already holds do not match,
   it retrieves the document once more before treating the mismatch as a
   change, since a statement over an updated document would otherwise
   fail at a server still holding older bytes.

   A match means the served document is the reviewed one, and its
   members are the client's metadata for the request, since a statement
   vouches for a document rather than a set of claims (Section 3).  A
   mismatch means the document changed after review (Section 3.3), and
   the authorization server MUST NOT treat the changed document as
   reviewed.  It rejects the presentation with invalid_client or, by
   local policy, proceeds without the statement.  If it proceeds, it
   applies its policy for Client ID Metadata Document clients it has not
   reviewed to the current document and creates no establishment for the
   statement.

   The request is evaluated against that metadata: a redirect_uri MUST
   match a redirection URI in the document, and any requested grant
   type, response type, or scope MUST fall within it.  A document that
   omits scope sets no ceiling on scope beyond the server's own policy.
   A grant or response type the authorization server supports but the
   document does not authorize fails with unauthorized_client; a scope
   outside the document fails with invalid_scope.

   A presentation refused because the bound on establishments of
   Section 6 is reached is rejected with invalid_client; its statement
   and proof are sound, so the authorization server SHOULD say so in
   error_description, and the client can retry once earlier
   establishments are released.

5.6.  Grant Lifecycle

   A successful presentation creates an establishment, the state a
   server persists for the grant, comprising:

   *  the validated sub;

   *  the statement identity, its iss, jti, iat, and expiry, and its
      status claim where it carries one;

   *  the authorization server's own tenant the grant was opened for,
      where it hosts more than one;

   *  the reviewed metadata and the digest it matched (Section 5.5);

   *  the issuer trust decision; and

   *  the sender-constraint mechanism and proven key.

   An authorization server MAY reuse an establishment across
   presentations that resolve to the same sub, statement, and proven
   key, rather than creating one per request; the bounds of Section 6
   count distinct establishments, not presentations.

   The establishment persists while the grant depends on it.  The
   authorization server MUST bind the resulting request_uri,
   authorization code, refresh token, and other grant continuation state
   to the establishment, as applicable, and MAY discard it once no such
   state references it.

   A token request that redeems an authorization code opened by a
   presentation:

   *  MUST have a client_id exactly equal to the establishment's sub;

   *  MUST demonstrate possession of the same proven key under the same
      sender-constraint mechanism; and

   *  MUST NOT carry the software_statement parameter.

   A redemption carrying a statement is rejected with invalid_request; a
   wrong client identifier or failed key binding is rejected with
   invalid_grant.  This prohibition covers redemption of a code bound to
   an establishment; a registered client redeeming its own code may
   deliver a replacement statement under [REGISTRATION], which is a
   delivery, not a presentation.

   A statement MUST be unexpired when presented.  Expiry after
   presentation does not by itself invalidate an establishment already
   bound.  The authorization server controls continued use through its
   grant and refresh-token policy and can require a current replacement
   statement as Section 5.6.1 defines.

5.6.1.  Refresh

   On refresh-token use the authorization server MUST verify possession
   of the establishment's proven key under the same sender-constraint
   mechanism.  It MAY, by local policy, additionally require a current
   unexpired statement, and SHOULD require one once the establishment's
   recorded statement has expired (Section 13.6).  The recorded
   statement satisfies that requirement while it is unexpired and no
   refusal record covers it; a replacement is needed only once the
   recorded statement expires or a refusal record covers it.

   Where the authorization server holds a refusal record for the
   establishment's recorded statement, it MUST reject a refresh without
   a presented or pulled replacement satisfying this section, whatever
   its policy on currency otherwise: a withdrawal ends grant
   continuation at once rather than waiting on local policy.  A server
   that resolves status for the recorded statement's issuer SHOULD check
   that statement at each refresh against a Status List Token it holds
   within that token's validity, so that a withdrawal the server has
   resolved reaches open grants and not only new ones.

   When a replacement is needed, the client presents it in the
   software_statement parameter of the refresh request, or, for an
   establishment created from a pulled statement, the server pulls one
   (Section 5.2).  A statement with the recorded statement's iss and jti
   is not a replacement: if the client offers it again, the server
   rechecks it as the recorded statement, under the first paragraph of
   this section.  The replacement:

   *  MUST validate under Section 3.2, including its audience where it
      carries one;

   *  MUST have the recorded statement's iss and sub;

   *  MUST have an iat later than the recorded statement's iat;

   *  MUST name, by its cimd_digest, the document currently served at
      its sub, which the server confirms by retrieval or by revalidating
      octets it holds; and

   *  MUST authorize the establishment's proven key (Section 5.4) or,
      for an establishment created under Section 5.4.1, name a document
      that still satisfies that section.

   The refreshed access MUST fall within the metadata of the document
   the replacement names.

   On success, the establishment's statement identity, iat, expiry,
   reviewed metadata, and trust decision are replaced in a single atomic
   update, and concurrent replacements resolve to the most recently
   issued statement.  A refresh that fails these requirements, or omits
   a replacement that is needed, is rejected with statement_required and
   leaves the establishment unchanged.  Refresh never rotates the
   establishment's key; a client that needs a new key performs a new
   presentation.

6.  Repeated Consumption of One Statement

   A statement attests client software, identified by sub, not its
   runtime instances, and this specification defines no instance
   identifier.  One unexpired statement is therefore consumable more
   than once: at each trusting authorization server in its audience and,
   where the server registers clients ([REGISTRATION]) and its policy
   permits, in more than one registration at that server.

   An authorization server hosting multiple tenants resolves a request's
   tenant by its own means, such as a per-tenant issuer identifier or
   endpoint; this specification defines no tenant parameter, and a
   Client ID Metadata Document URL is the same client_id in every
   tenant.  Bounds, inventories, and the watermark below are kept within
   what the authorization server treats as one deployment (at a multi-
   tenant server, one tenant), so that an issuer's statements for
   different tenants do not supersede one another.

   A trusting authorization server MUST retain, per iss and sub, the iat
   of the most recent statement it has accepted.  It MUST reject a
   statement whose iat is earlier than the retained iat, whether it
   arrives as a replacement, a new registration, or a new presentation.
   Because this floor spans every registration and establishment, a
   client holding a superseded, broader statement cannot defer a
   narrowing by opening a fresh registration or establishment with it.
   The server retains the watermark at least as long as the maximum
   statement lifetime it honors for that issuer.

   For the same reason, the first presentation of a replacement that
   establishes the client retires its predecessor for every instance of
   the software at that server.  Instances SHOULD therefore obtain the
   current statement from a source they share, such as an endpoint the
   publisher operates or a store their deployment shares, rather than
   each holding a copy fixed when it was built or installed.

   A trusting authorization server SHOULD use the statement's sub and
   iss to inventory the establishments, and any registrations
   ([REGISTRATION]), derived from that issuer's statements about that
   software, and SHOULD bound their number.  An establishment counts
   toward a bound only once an access token has been issued from it (in
   a redirect flow, once its authorization code is redeemed).  State
   created by a pushed authorization request does not count, even where
   its code was issued but never redeemed, since anyone holding a copy
   of a public client's statement can create such state and approve it
   with their own account.  A bound is counted across replacements; one
   keyed on jti would reset at every renewal.

   Where the reviewed document carries jwks or jwks_uri, a runtime
   presentation proves a key from it (Section 5.4).  Software
   distributed to end users presents at the pushed authorization request
   endpoint under Section 5.4.1, which creates an establishment per
   grant rather than a registration per installation.  Software whose
   instances hold their own keys can neither prove nor register those
   keys (Section 5.4, [REGISTRATION]) and depends on the endorsement
   extension of Section 12.

7.  Deployment Model: Centrally Curated Software

   This section is non-normative.

   A provider's marketplace decides which software may exist as a client
   on its platform, and the provider configures the marketplace's issuer
   for the identifier namespaces the marketplace speaks for (Section 4).
   Whether that software may operate in a particular customer's tenant
   is a separate decision, usually made by the customer's identity
   provider (Section 8.2); this specification carries that decision only
   where the customer operates its own issuer.

   A marketplace application is reviewed once.  Its listing is a
   statement whose renewal keeps the application admissible.  One
   listing serves every tenant, whether the customer deploys the
   software or the vendor hosts it, so a vendor onboards customers
   without per-customer provisioning.

   An enterprise that reviews software itself can also operate an
   issuer, so that its review travels as an auditable artifact to the
   providers its statements name in aud, rather than remaining a policy
   decision inside its identity provider.

   The two lifecycles need no synchronization.  Onboarding a provider is
   one trust configuration covering the issuer, its identifier scope,
   and its lifetime policy, with no per-application allowlist.  A
   request rests on one statement: in a tenant where a provider requires
   the customer's tenant-scoped decision, the statement carrying that
   decision is presented; elsewhere, the listing is presented.

   When the customer's issuer stops renewing, the application lapses in
   that customer's tenant at every provider that requires the customer's
   decision, leaving the listing and other customers unaffected.  When
   the marketplace stops renewing, the listing expires in every tenant
   that relies on it, along with registrations a provider bounds by it
   ([REGISTRATION]).  Either lapse stops new runtime presentations of
   the lapsed statements after exp and ends refresh-based continuation
   where the provider requires a current statement (Section 5.6.1).
   Already-issued access tokens remain governed by their own lifetime,
   and providers retain local control over grants and emergency
   deprovisioning.

8.  Relationship to Other Work

   This section is non-normative.

8.1.  Client Attestation

   A software statement is an attestation: a signed third-party
   assertion about a client, accepted by an authorization server that
   trusts the signer.  It is an attributable claim bounded by the
   signer's process, not proof that what it says is true.  It differs
   from the client attestation of [ABCA] and the client instance
   assertion of [CLIENT-INSTANCE] in subject, authority, lifetime, and
   effect, not in kind.

   Subject:  A software statement attests client software and the
      metadata a reviewer evaluated.  A client attestation attests a
      running instance and the key it holds.

   Authority:  A software statement is signed by a review authority
      whose scope is a set of client identifiers.  A client attestation
      is signed by a client attester whose scope is a deployment of the
      software.  An authorization server configures trust in the two
      independently.

   Lifetime and audience:  A software statement carries a reviewer-
      chosen expiry and, optionally, an audience, and is consumed at
      every authorization server that trusts its issuer, within that
      audience where it names one.  A client attestation carries its own
      expiry and is presented with a proof bound to the request it
      accompanies.

   Effect:  A software statement supports admission: it says which
      client this is and what metadata a named reviewer stands behind.
      A client attestation supplies presenter proof: that the party
      sending this request holds a key someone vouches for.  Neither
      grants access, and neither substitutes for the other.

   A deployment holding only a client attestation knows what is running
   but not whether anyone approved it; one holding only a software
   statement knows the software was reviewed but not that this sender is
   running it.  Runtime presentation therefore always requires both the
   statement and a sender constraint (Section 5.4).

   This specification defines no new attestation format and no new
   attester role.  Where the presenter proves a key the reviewed
   document carries, it uses ordinary client authentication or DPoP;
   binding a presenter attestation defined elsewhere is an extension
   (Section 12).

8.2.  Identity Assertions

   This specification defines one layer of the decision to let a client
   act: admission, which sits above the sender-constraint proof that
   identifies the presenter and the grant that carries a user's
   authorization.  A statement records that a named party reviewed
   software and vouched for its metadata, not that a particular customer
   currently permits that software to act in its tenant.  The two change
   on different clocks.  A tenant-scoped decision (aud_tenant)
   constrains where a review applies; it does not authorize any
   particular user or transaction.

   Where a customer's identity provider mediates a grant, as when a
   cross-domain identity assertion carries the customer's users to a
   provider, the identity provider already answers the second question
   per grant.  It issues assertions only for clients the customer
   permits, so withdrawal takes effect on the next grant and no artifact
   outlives the decision.  A deployment that wants that property should
   rely on the identity provider rather than reproduce it with
   statements.

   This specification addresses the durable question, which a statement
   answers where the reviewer is not in the request path:

   *  a publisher program or ecosystem directory vouching to servers it
      will never see;

   *  a provider admitting software it has never registered; or

   *  a customer that wants an auditable, portable record of what its
      review covered, rather than an inference from an assertion having
      been issued.

8.3.  OpenID Federation

   [OPENID-FED] conveys attested metadata through trust chains: an
   authorization server resolves an entity to a trust anchor rather than
   configuring the issuer that vouched for it, and applies metadata
   derived by policy along that chain.  This specification instead keeps
   the reviewed document as the metadata and leaves issuer trust to
   local configuration (Section 4).  A federation can supply that issuer
   trust and carry a review as a trust mark, but resolved metadata is
   not the octets a digest covers, so a client's metadata comes from one
   source or the other, not both.  Ecosystems already operating a
   federation should consider its registration mechanisms first.

8.4.  Existing Software Statement Ecosystems

   The UK Open Banking Directory and the Australian Consumer Data Right
   Register each operate a central issuer whose statements many
   unrelated authorization servers consume at registration through the
   [RFC7591] software_statement parameter ([UK-OPEN-BANKING], [AU-CDR]).
   Neither conforms to this specification: neither binds a statement to
   a document version the authorization server retrieves, and both carry
   client metadata in the statement.

9.  Error Responses

   A statement consumed at registration is rejected as [REGISTRATION]
   defines.  A rejected presentation or replacement uses the error
   responses of [RFC6749] for the endpoint at which it was presented.
   At the token endpoint:

   invalid_client:  the statement or its proof fails to establish the
      client, including a failed sender constraint (Section 5.4) and a
      failed statement requirement of Section 3 other than expiry.
      Under [REGISTRATION], this code also covers a request under an
      expired registration that carries no replacement.

   statement_required:  a current statement is required and none was
      supplied, or the one supplied is expired or refused.  The client
      recovers by obtaining a newer statement; re-sending the same one
      cannot succeed.  Wherever this specification requires a current
      statement on a refresh-token request, this code replaces
      invalid_grant, so that a client does not read the rejection as an
      invalid refresh token ([RFC9700]).

   temporarily_unavailable:  a retrieval this specification requires, of
      the reviewed document or of a key set it names, did not complete.
      The client retries; the statement is not in question.

   unauthorized_client:  the reviewed document does not authorize the
      requested grant type or response type, although the authorization
      server supports it.

   invalid_scope:  a requested scope falls outside the reviewed
      document.

   invalid_request:  any other rejection, including a redemption or
      issuance request carrying the software_statement parameter, and a
      request repeating the parameter (Section 5.1, Section 5.6).

   The codes apply as follows:

   +===============+=========================+=========================+
   |Condition      | Pushed authorization    | Token, including        |
   |               | request                 | refresh                 |
   +===============+=========================+=========================+
   |Malformed, or  | invalid_client          | invalid_client          |
   |failing        |                         |                         |
   |signature or   |                         |                         |
   |claim          |                         |                         |
   |validation     |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Valid but not  | invalid_client          | invalid_client          |
   |acceptable     |                         |                         |
   |here: issuer   |                         |                         |
   |not            |                         |                         |
   |configured,    |                         |                         |
   |aud excludes   |                         |                         |
   |this server,   |                         |                         |
   |sub outside    |                         |                         |
   |the issuer's   |                         |                         |
   |scope,         |                         |                         |
   |aud_tenant not |                         |                         |
   |this request's |                         |                         |
   |tenant or      |                         |                         |
   |absent where   |                         |                         |
   |required,      |                         |                         |
   |statement_uses |                         |                         |
   |excludes this  |                         |                         |
   |use            |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Expired, or    | statement_required      | statement_required      |
   |refused by a   |                         |                         |
   |refusal        |                         |                         |
   |record,        |                         |                         |
   |including a    |                         |                         |
   |status         |                         |                         |
   |resolved as    |                         |                         |
   |INVALID, or as |                         |                         |
   |SUSPENDED      |                         |                         |
   |where policy   |                         |                         |
   |refuses it, or |                         |                         |
   |superseded     |                         |                         |
   |under the iat  |                         |                         |
   |floor of       |                         |                         |
   |Section 6      |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Required       | statement_required      | statement_required      |
   |statement      |                         |                         |
   |absent,        |                         |                         |
   |including one  |                         |                         |
   |from an issuer |                         |                         |
   |required for   |                         |                         |
   |the tenant     |                         |                         |
   |(Section 4)    |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Digest does    | see Section 5.5         | see Section 5.5         |
   |not match the  |                         |                         |
   |retrieved      |                         |                         |
   |document       |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Document       | unauthorized_client or  | unauthorized_client or  |
   |carries        | invalid_scope           | invalid_scope           |
   |metadata this  |                         |                         |
   |server's       |                         |                         |
   |policy refuses |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Retrieval did  | temporarily_unavailable | temporarily_unavailable |
   |not complete   |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Document       | invalid_client          | invalid_client          |
   |exceeds the    |                         |                         |
   |server's size  |                         |                         |
   |bound          |                         |                         |
   |(Section 3.1)  |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Review-only    | unauthorized_client     | unauthorized_client     |
   |client where   |                         |                         |
   |reviewed       |                         |                         |
   |software is    |                         |                         |
   |required       |                         |                         |
   |(Section       |                         |                         |
   |5.4.1)         |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+

                                  Table 1

   An authorization server SHOULD use HTTP status code 503 with
   temporarily_unavailable and 400 with the others, so that a client can
   distinguish a condition worth retrying from one that needs a new
   statement.

   At the pushed authorization request endpoint, these codes are carried
   in the error response of [RFC9126].  On refresh-token use,
   Section 5.6.1 takes precedence, and registration validity is reported
   as [REGISTRATION] defines; neither rejection indicates refresh-token
   replay ([RFC9700]).

   A statement is never presented at the authorization endpoint
   (Section 5.1.1), though one may be pulled there (Section 5.2).
   There, a review-only client is rejected with unauthorized_client, and
   a client whose pulled statements could not be retrieved is rejected
   with temporarily_unavailable, in each case where reviewed software is
   required (Section 5.4.1, Section 5.2).

   Apart from those two cases, at the authorization endpoint, where this
   server requires a statement for a client that has none established,
   or where the client's statement-governed registration has expired
   without a replacement ([REGISTRATION]), the authorization server MUST
   return statement_required in the authorization error response
   [RFC6749].  The code tells the client to obtain a statement and
   return through the pushed authorization request endpoint; without the
   code, a client cannot tell a missing review from a policy it will
   never satisfy.

   The authorization server redirects with the error only after
   resolving the client's Client ID Metadata Document, or for an expired
   registration consulting the retained registration ([REGISTRATION]),
   and validating the request's redirect_uri against it.  Where it
   cannot resolve the document or, for an expired registration, the
   retained registration, and so cannot validate the redirection URI,
   the authorization server MUST NOT redirect and reports the error to
   the resource owner instead.

   Where the proof mechanism defines a recoverable error of its own,
   such as a DPoP nonce challenge [RFC9449], that error takes precedence
   over the generic errors above.

   These codes do not tell a client whether to seek a corrected
   statement or a different issuer.  The authorization server MAY return
   non-sensitive diagnostics in error_description to a client it has
   authenticated, but MUST NOT reveal issuer-trust, subject-namespace,
   or attester-policy details to an unauthenticated requester.  Where a
   statement is refused by a refusal record rather than merely expired,
   and the client is authenticated, the authorization server SHOULD
   indicate that a statement issued more recently is required, since re-
   delivering the same statement can never succeed.

10.  Examples

   Both examples are non-normative.

10.1.  Presenting at the Token Endpoint

   The following example shows a client presenting an already-issued
   statement at the token endpoint of a server holding no record for it.
   The reviewed document, which the statement's digest covers, names a
   jwks_uri and names private_key_jwt as its authentication method, so
   the client authenticates with a key that document carries.  The
   client_id is the Client ID Metadata Document URL named by the
   statement's sub (line breaks are for display purposes only).

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: as.example
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

   grant_type=client_credentials
   &scope=tools.read
   &client_id=https%3A%2F%2Fclient.example%2Fapp
   &client_assertion_type=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3A
   client-assertion-type%3Ajwt-bearer
   &client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjIwMjYtMDgifQ...
   &software_statement=eyJ0eXAiOiJzb2Z0d2FyZS1zdGF0ZW1l...

   The authorization server validates the statement, retrieves the
   document its digest names, verifies the client assertion against a
   key from that document's jwks_uri, and checks that the requested
   scope falls within the document's scope.  It keeps no registration;
   the effective client_id is the statement's sub.

10.2.  Publishing a Statement for Servers to Pull

   The following example shows a Client ID Metadata Document naming
   where its statements are published:

   {
     "client_id": "https://client.example/app",
     "redirect_uris": ["https://client.example/cb"],
     "token_endpoint_auth_method": "private_key_jwt",
     "jwks_uri": "https://client.example/jwks.json",
     "software_statements_uri":
       "https://client.example/statements.json"
   }

   A request to that URL returns the statements, here one:

   {
     "software_statements": [
       "eyJ0eXAiOiJzb2Z0d2FyZS1zdGF0ZW1lbnQrand0Iiwi..."
     ]
   }

   An authorization server receiving an ordinary authorization request
   with this client_id resolves the document, retrieves the statements,
   and keeps the one from a trusted issuer whose cimd_digest matches the
   document it retrieved.  It completes the binding when the client
   authenticates with private_key_jwt at code redemption (Section 5.2).

11.  Authorization Server Metadata

   This specification defines the following authorization server
   metadata [RFC8414] values:

   software_statement_jwks_uri:  REQUIRED for an authorization server
      that issues software statements.  URL of a JWK Set containing only
      the keys with which it signs software statements.  The URL MUST
      use the https scheme, as [RFC8414] requires of jwks_uri.  A
      trusting authorization server MUST validate the server's
      certificate when retrieving the statement key set, since a
      substituted key set would let a network attacker sign statements.
      The keys in this set MUST NOT appear in the JWK Set at the
      server's jwks_uri, and the server MUST NOT sign anything other
      than software statements with them.  A trusting authorization
      server verifies statements only against this set (Section 4), so a
      key that signs another artifact, such as a Status List Token,
      cannot be taken for a statement signing key.  This member
      describes the issuing role.

   software_statement_signing_alg_values_supported:  REQUIRED for an
      authorization server that issues software statements.  A JSON
      array containing the asymmetric JWS alg values that the
      authorization server can use to sign software statements.  The
      array MUST NOT contain none or a symmetric algorithm.  This member
      describes the issuing role; an authorization server that only
      accepts software statements does not publish it.

   software_statement_presentation_supported:  OPTIONAL.  A JSON array
      naming the endpoints at which the authorization server accepts a
      software statement presented at runtime (Section 5.1).  Defined
      values are token and pushed_authorization_request; a client
      ignores a value it does not recognize.  Omission, or an empty
      array, means runtime presentation is not offered; advertising only
      token offers it, without the front-channel path, to clients that
      need no redirect.  This member describes the role of a trusting
      authorization server and implies neither acceptance of any
      particular statement issuer or subject namespace nor support for
      statement-governed registrations ([REGISTRATION]).  An
      authorization server advertising presentation at the pushed
      authorization request endpoint MUST publish
      pushed_authorization_request_endpoint, since Section 5.1.1 makes
      presentation there the only front-channel path.  A client also
      examines the ordinary client-authentication and DPoP metadata for
      the proof it intends to use.  Admitting a public client's
      presentation at the pushed authorization request endpoint
      (Section 5.4.1) is local policy; a refusal uses Section 9.

   software_statement_presentation_grant_types_supported:  OPTIONAL.  A
      JSON array of grant type identifiers on which the authorization
      server accepts a runtime presentation, in addition to those
      Section 5.1 names.  Omission means only those.

   software_statement_pull_supported:  OPTIONAL.  Boolean value
      indicating whether the authorization server retrieves statements
      from a client's software_statements_uri when establishing a client
      that presented none (Section 5.2).  If omitted, the default value
      is false.  A client whose document names a location needs nothing
      further from the server; the member tells a client whether it also
      needs to present.

12.  Extension Points

   The following extensions are left to separate specifications:

   *  Endorsed keys: a client attestation [ABCA], or an assertion from
      an issuer named by an instance_issuers delegation in the reviewed
      document [CLIENT-INSTANCE], vouching for a key that document does
      not carry.  This extension would admit software whose instances
      hold their own keys.

   *  Statement conveyance within a client attestation, rather than as a
      request parameter.

   *  Partial review, by which an issuer vouches for particular members
      rather than a whole document (Section 3).

13.  Security Considerations

13.1.  Statement Theft and Replay

   A runtime presentation resists statement theft because the presenter
   proves a key the reviewed document carries (Section 5.4), which a
   thief holding only the statement lacks.  Admitting only that key also
   prevents downgrade: every server in the audience either binds the
   presenter to it or refuses the presentation.  An extension admitting
   endorsed keys (Section 12) has to address downgrade on its own terms.

   Attesting a jwks_uri attests the location, not its contents: a
   compromised key host can add keys that satisfy the proof without a
   digest change.  Where that matters, an issuer attests jwks inline and
   accepts that rotation changes the digest.  A server reusing a cached
   key set (Section 5.4) also accepts that a just-removed key can
   briefly continue to verify.

   The sender constraint, the grant bindings of Section 5.6, and the
   registration-validity model of [REGISTRATION] add to the validation
   of Section 3.2; nothing relaxes it.

13.2.  Servers That Do Not Implement This Specification

   A statement carries no client metadata, so an [RFC7591] server that
   verified one without implementing this specification would take every
   metadata value from the registration request.  That server would
   attach the issuer's approval to an attacker's redirection URIs and
   keys, the substitution [REGISTRATION] exists to prevent.  Keeping
   statement signing keys at software_statement_jwks_uri and out of
   jwks_uri (Section 11) prevents this.  A server that discovers an
   issuer's keys through [RFC8414] finds none that verify a statement,
   and a server configured with the statement key set has been
   configured for this specification.

13.3.  Copied Statements and Public Clients

   A public client's presentation (Section 5.4.1) admits a statement
   without proof of a key the reviewed document carries, so a party
   holding a copied statement can open a pushed authorization request in
   the reviewed software's name.  The party cannot complete the grant,
   because the authorization code is delivered only to a redirection URI
   the issuer reviewed.  That holds only for redirection URIs no other
   application on the device can claim, so a document carrying a
   private-use scheme or loopback redirection URI is presented review-
   only (Section 5.4.1).

   The residual exposure is a consent prompt carrying the reviewed
   software's name and branding, raised by a party that cannot receive
   what the user approves.  An authorization server SHOULD rate-limit
   presentations per statement identity and per subject (Section 13.5),
   and an issuer bounds the exposure through audience, lifetime, and
   status (Section 3).

   This binding is weaker than a confidential client's, but a key
   shipped in every copy of software distributed to end users would bind
   no installation (Section 5.4.1).  An endorsement extension
   (Section 12) would strengthen it by giving the instance a key a third
   party vouches for.

13.4.  Tenant Confusion at a Multi-Tenant Consumer

   Where a trusting authorization server serves several tenants and
   evaluates anything tenant-specific, the tenant it decides against and
   the tenant that scopes what it issues MUST be the same.  Neither may
   be selected by a value the client chooses; a tenant asserted in a
   signed assertion the server has validated, such as an identity
   assertion authorization grant [IDJAG], is the server's own
   resolution.  A server that derives the tenant one way to check a
   decision and another way to scope a token lets a client reach one
   tenant's resources on another tenant's decision.  The aud_tenant
   claim makes that failure detectable: a statement naming a tenant
   cannot be used in another.

   Tenant resolution remains the server's responsibility.  With no
   tenant parameter and one client identifier URL across tenants
   (Section 6), neither a client nor an issuer can verify that a server
   honored this rule.

   The aud_tenant claim confines a decision to a tenant at the trusting
   authorization server; it does not identify which of the client's own
   customers is asking.  Software that acts for many customers under one
   client identifier and key presents the same statement and key for
   each.  A statement naming a tenant therefore admits the software
   there on behalf of every customer it serves, and any of them can
   direct it at another's tenant.  A statement attests software and
   cannot prevent this; a deployment that needs a customer-to-tenant
   binding records it at the trusting authorization server or carries
   the customer as instance identity ([CLIENT-INSTANCE]).

13.5.  External Retrieval and Resource Exhaustion

   Runtime presentation can cause the authorization server to retrieve
   the Client ID Metadata Document, a jwks_uri it names, or the
   statements its software_statements_uri names.  Every such retrieval
   inherits the server-side request forgery protections of [CIMD].  A
   trusted signature does not make a URL safe: the authorization server
   MUST apply its URL, redirect, address-range, transport, and content-
   type policy independently to every referenced location.

   Presentation reaches these retrievals before any client is registered
   or any user has interacted, so an unauthenticated requester holding
   one acceptable statement can cause this work.  An authorization
   server SHOULD therefore bound it:

   *  rate-limit presentations per statement identity, per subject, and
      per source, and pulls (Section 5.2) per client identifier and per
      source, before spending retrieval or storage on a new
      presentation;

   *  bound the establishments it will create from one statement
      (Section 6), before spending retrieval or storage on a new
      presentation;

   *  bound JWT size and parsing work, concurrent retrievals, response
      size, and response time; and

   *  cache successful retrieval results within the document's caching
      directives, and back off after a failure rather than cache it,
      since [CIMD] forbids caching error responses.

   A retrieval failure leaves the relevant metadata or proof unverified,
   so the authorization server MUST reject the request and MUST NOT fall
   back to a weaker proof.  A failed pull of statements for a request
   that opens a new grant is the exception: it leaves the client
   unreviewed, as Section 5.2 describes.  A failed pull of a replacement
   that a refresh requires is not an exception: the refresh fails, and
   the grant never continues under the policy for clients the server has
   not reviewed (Section 5.6.1).

13.6.  Enforcement Bounds

   Expiry is enforced at every presentation, so a lapsed statement
   prevents new runtime admission ([REGISTRATION] defines its effect on
   registrations).  A lapsed statement does not retroactively invalidate
   an establishment, revoke an access token, or terminate an outstanding
   grant.  Issuer non-renewal ends runtime-established grants only where
   the server requires a current statement on refresh; otherwise they
   last for the life of their refresh tokens whatever the statement
   lifetime, unless the server has resolved a withdrawal
   (Section 5.6.1).

   A narrowed re-review takes effect when the client publishes the
   narrower document and obtains a statement over it.  Post-issuance
   metadata change is detected through cimd_digest, which covers exact
   bytes but requires the server to hold the current ones, retrieved or
   retained.  The bounded statement lifetime limits what either signal
   can miss for new admissions.  The status claim of Section 3, resolved
   through [STATUSLIST], lets an issuer end a decision before its
   expiry, and exp remains the floor where no status resolves
   (Section 3.2).

   Short statement lifetimes tighten the issuer's control and increase
   issuance and delivery traffic.  A fleet of statements issued together
   expires together, so issuers SHOULD stagger expiries or renew ahead
   of the boundary to avoid synchronized lapses.

13.7.  Status Resolution

   Resolving status adds a dependency on the issuer and a retrieval the
   client does not control.  Because [STATUSLIST] aggregates many
   statements into one list, a retrieval tells the issuer only that some
   trusting authorization server is checking.  A server SHOULD retrieve
   the list on the list's own schedule rather than once per request, so
   that its request timing does not disclose the client population it
   serves.  Per-request resolution would also make every request the
   statement governs depend on issuer availability.

   A status list is signed by the issuer, and a server MUST obtain the
   list's verification keys from the jwks_uri of the issuer's
   authorization server metadata [RFC8414], reached from the configured
   iss, never from the list itself.  That key set is separate from the
   issuer's statement key set (Section 11), so a key that signs the list
   cannot sign statements.

13.8.  Document Resolution

   Every presentation resolves the Client ID Metadata Document its
   statement names (Section 5.5), and that resolution inherits the
   considerations of [CIMD], including server-side request forgery and
   availability.  A server MAY cache resolution results within the
   document's caching directives; the digest tells the server whether
   the bytes it holds, retrieved or retained, are the reviewed ones
   (Section 3.1, [REGISTRATION]).

13.9.  Observable State

   A statement_required refusal at the authorization endpoint
   (Section 9) travels through the user agent, so it tells anyone who
   can see the redirection that this client has no established standing
   at this server.  The software_statement_presentation_supported
   metadata discloses only that presentation is offered.  The disclosure
   is accepted because a client that cannot learn why it was refused
   cannot act.  The disclosure carries no issuer-trust, subject-scope,
   or attester-policy detail, which Section 9 keeps from unauthenticated
   requesters.

13.10.  Statement Handling

   Servers SHOULD avoid logging software statements, which remain
   sensitive in transit and at rest.  Possession alone does not enable
   presentation, but a statement names reviewed software and, where it
   carries an audience, that software's intended relationships.

14.  Privacy Considerations

   A presentation or delivery reveals to the authorization server the
   client's issuer relationship and, where the statement carries an aud
   claim, the other authorization servers the client intends to use;
   omitting that claim discloses nothing beyond the review.  Pushed
   authorization requests (Section 5.1.1) keep statements out of browser
   history, referrers, and front-channel logs.

   A central issuer also learns from renewals which of its statements
   are in active use, so issuance and renewal logs deserve the same care
   as the statements.

   Retrieving the document tells its host that the server is resolving
   the client.  Pulling statements (Section 5.2) tells the host of
   software_statements_uri the same; that host is an additional party
   only where the URL is on another origin.  Published statements are
   readable by anyone, so their aud and aud_tenant claims disclose which
   servers and tenants a review names; a statement whose audience is
   sensitive is presented rather than published.

15.  IANA Considerations

15.1.  OAuth Parameters Registry

   This specification requests registration of the software_statement
   parameter in the IANA "OAuth Parameters" registry established by
   [RFC6749], for runtime presentation and statement delivery of the
   artifact defined by [RFC7591]:

   Parameter Name:  software_statement

   Parameter Usage Location:  authorization request, token request

   Note:  In an authorization request the parameter is conveyed only
      through the pushed authorization request endpoint [RFC9126], never
      in a front-channel URL (Section 5.1.1).

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 5.1

   The "OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata" registry established
   by [RFC7591] already contains a software_statement member, which this
   registration does not affect.  The name is reused because the
   artifact is the same [RFC7591] software statement, carried to the
   same server for the same purpose.  A distinct name would make a
   client carry one artifact under two names, and a server would not
   recognize at the token endpoint what it accepts at the registration
   endpoint.

15.2.  Media Type Registration

   This specification requests registration of the application/software-
   statement+jwt media type in the IANA "Media Types" registry
   [RFC6838].

   Type name:  application

   Subtype name:  software-statement+jwt

   Required parameters:  n/a

   Optional parameters:  n/a

   Encoding considerations:  8bit.  A software statement is a JWT.  JWT
      values are encoded as a series of base64url-encoded values
      separated by period ('.') characters, as registered for
      application/jwt in Section 10.3.1 of [RFC7519].

   Security considerations:  See Section 13 of this specification and
      Section 11 of [RFC7519].

   Interoperability considerations:  n/a

   Published specification:  This specification

   Applications that use this media type:  Authorization servers and
      clients that issue, request, or accept OAuth 2.0 software
      statements

   Fragment identifier considerations:  n/a

   Additional information:  File extension(s): n/a.  Macintosh file type
      code(s): n/a.

   Person & email address to contact for further information:  Karl
      McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   Intended usage:  COMMON

   Restrictions on usage:  none

   Author:  Karl McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   Change controller:  IETF

15.3.  Claims Defined Elsewhere

   This specification uses one claim it does not define: aud_tenant,
   defined and registered by [IDJAG].

15.4.  JSON Web Token Claims Registry

   This specification requests registration of the following values in
   the IANA "JSON Web Token Claims" registry established by [RFC7519]:

   Claim Name:  cimd_digest

   Claim Description:  Unpadded base64url-encoded SHA-256 digest of the
      retrieved octets of the Client ID Metadata Document evaluated
      during software statement issuance

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 3

   Claim Name:  statement_uses

   Claim Description:  Permitted uses of a software statement

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 3

15.5.  OAuth Extensions Error Registry

   This specification requests registration of the following error codes
   in the IANA "OAuth Extensions Error Registry" established by
   [RFC6749]:

   Error Name:  statement_required

   Error Usage Location:  authorization error response, token error
      response, pushed authorization request error response

   Related Protocol Extension:  CIMD Software Statement

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 9

   Error Name:  temporarily_unavailable

   Existing Registration:  [RFC6749]

   Error Usage Location:  token error response and pushed authorization
      request error response, in addition to the locations already
      registered

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  [RFC6749], this specification (Section 9)

15.6.  OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata Registry

   This specification requests registration of the following client
   metadata member, published by a client in its Client ID Metadata
   Document:

   Client Metadata Name:  software_statements_uri

   Client Metadata Description:  URL, in a Client ID Metadata Document,
      at which the client publishes software statements about itself for
      an authorization server to retrieve.  It is not meaningful in a
      registration request.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 5.2

15.7.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry

   This specification requests registration of the following values in
   the IANA "OAuth Authorization Server Metadata" registry established
   by [RFC8414].

   Metadata Name:  software_statement_presentation_supported

   Metadata Description:  JSON array of endpoint names at which the
      authorization server accepts a software statement presented at
      runtime.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 11

   Metadata Name:  software_statement_presentation_grant_types_supported

   Metadata Description:  JSON array of grant type identifiers on which
      the authorization server accepts a runtime presentation, beyond
      those the specification names.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 11

   Metadata Name:  software_statement_signing_alg_values_supported

   Metadata Description:  JSON array containing the asymmetric JWS
      algorithms supported by the authorization server for signing
      software statements.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 11

   Metadata Name:  software_statement_jwks_uri

   Metadata Description:  URL of the JWK Set containing only the keys
      with which the authorization server signs software statements.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 11

   Metadata Name:  software_statement_pull_supported

   Metadata Description:  Boolean value indicating whether the
      authorization server retrieves software statements from a client's
      software_statements_uri.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 11

16.  References

16.1.  Normative References

   [CIMD]     "OAuth Client ID Metadata Document", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-client-
              id-metadata-document>.

   [IDJAG]    "Identity Assertion Authorization Grant", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-
              identity-assertion-authz-grant>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC6234]  Eastlake 3rd, D. and T. Hansen, "US Secure Hash Algorithms
              (SHA and SHA-based HMAC and HKDF)", RFC 6234,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6234, May 2011,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6234>.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>.

   [RFC6838]  Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen, "Media Type
              Specifications and Registration Procedures", BCP 13,
              RFC 6838, DOI 10.17487/RFC6838, January 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6838>.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web
              Signature (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7515>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7521]  Campbell, B., Mortimore, C., Jones, M., and Y. Goland,
              "Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication
              and Authorization Grants", RFC 7521, DOI 10.17487/RFC7521,
              May 2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>.

   [RFC7591]  Richer, J., Ed., Jones, M., Bradley, J., Machulak, M., and
              P. Hunt, "OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol",
              RFC 7591, DOI 10.17487/RFC7591, July 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7591>.

   [RFC7636]  Sakimura, N., Ed., Bradley, J., and N. Agarwal, "Proof Key
              for Code Exchange by OAuth Public Clients", RFC 7636,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7636, September 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7636>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8725]  Sheffer, Y., Hardt, D., and M. Jones, "JSON Web Token Best
              Current Practices", BCP 225, RFC 8725,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8725, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8725>.

   [RFC9110]  Fielding, R., Ed., Nottingham, M., Ed., and J. Reschke,
              Ed., "HTTP Semantics", STD 97, RFC 9110,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9110, June 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110>.

   [RFC9126]  Lodderstedt, T., Campbell, B., Sakimura, N., Tonge, D.,
              and F. Skokan, "OAuth 2.0 Pushed Authorization Requests",
              RFC 9126, DOI 10.17487/RFC9126, September 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9126>.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, DOI 10.17487/RFC9449,
              September 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9449>.

   [RFC9700]  Lodderstedt, T., Bradley, J., Labunets, A., and D. Fett,
              "Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security", BCP 240,
              RFC 9700, DOI 10.17487/RFC9700, January 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9700>.

   [STATUSLIST]
              "Token Status List", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-status-
              list>.

16.2.  Informative References

   [ABCA]     "OAuth 2.0 Attestation-Based Client Authentication", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-
              attestation-based-client-auth>.

   [AU-CDR]   "Consumer Data Standards (Australia)", n.d.,
              <https://consumerdatastandardsaustralia.github.io/
              standards/>.

   [CLIENT-INSTANCE]
              "OAuth 2.0 Client Instance Assertion", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              client-instance-assertion>.

   [OPENID-FED]
              "OpenID Federation 1.0", n.d.,
              <https://openid.net/specs/openid-federation-1_0.html>.

   [REGISTRATION]
              "CIMD Software Statement Registration", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              cimd-sw-stmt-registration>.

   [UK-OPEN-BANKING]
              "Open Banking UK Dynamic Client Registration Specification
              v3.3", n.d., <https://openbankinguk.github.io/dcr-docs-
              pub/v3.3/dynamic-client-registration.html>.

Acknowledgments

   This mechanism began as the consumption part of a draft on software
   statement issuance and was split out so that consumption can evolve
   separately from issuance.  It draws on working-group discussion of
   Client ID Metadata Documents and attestation-based client
   authentication.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
