



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                             7 August 2026
Intended status: Standards Track                                        
Expires: 8 February 2027


   OAuth 2.0 Software Statement Consumption and Runtime Presentation
           draft-mcguinness-oauth-sw-stmt-presentation-latest

Abstract

   RFC 7591 defines the software statement as input to dynamic client
   registration but does not define how long the resulting registration
   remains valid or how a client renews the statement on which it was
   based.  This specification defines two consumption profiles.  In the
   registration profile, a statement bound to an RFC 7591 software_id
   governs the registration until the statement expires and a
   replacement renews that validity.  In the runtime profile, a
   statement bound to a Client ID Metadata Document URL establishes an
   otherwise unregistered client for an authorization or token request
   and the grant state derived from it.  Runtime presentation requires
   proof of a key directly attested by the statement or covered by an
   accepted endorsement chain, so possession of the statement alone is
   insufficient.  Together, the profiles let an issuer curate approved
   client software across the authorization servers in a statement's
   audience while preserving each server's control over trust, metadata
   authority, grants, and token lifetime.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 8 February 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Protocol Overview
     1.2.  Relationship to Client Attestation
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Statement Profiles
     3.1.  Common Elements
     3.2.  DCR Profile
     3.3.  CIMD Profile
   4.  Presentation at Registration
     4.1.  Registration Validity
     4.2.  Revalidation
     4.3.  Version Changes
   5.  Runtime Presentation
     5.1.  Presentation Request
       5.1.1.  Authorization Endpoint
       5.1.2.  Token Endpoint
     5.2.  Presentation Processing
     5.3.  Sender Constraint
     5.4.  Effective Metadata
     5.5.  Grant Lifecycle
       5.5.1.  Refresh
     5.6.  Registered CIMD Clients
   6.  Deployment Model: Centrally Curated Software
   7.  Error Responses
   8.  Examples
     8.1.  Revalidating a Statement-Governed Registration
     8.2.  Presenting at the Token Endpoint
   9.  Authorization Server Metadata
   10. Extension Points
   11. Security Considerations
     11.1.  Statement Theft
     11.2.  Renewal Authenticates the Credential
     11.3.  Validation Scope
     11.4.  Key Location versus Keys
     11.5.  External Retrieval and Resource Exhaustion
     11.6.  Enforcement Bounds
     11.7.  Client-Asserted Metadata
     11.8.  Observable State
     11.9.  Statement Handling
   12. Privacy Considerations
   13. IANA Considerations
     13.1.  OAuth Parameters Registry
     13.2.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry
   14. Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   [RFC7591] defines no standard expiry or renewal procedure for a
   dynamic client registration.  A software statement ([RFC7591],
   Section 2.3) can carry a reviewer's approval into a registration
   request, but the registration can outlive the statement and the
   review it represents.  An organization that reviews client software
   therefore has no interoperable way to keep that review current at the
   authorization servers that relied on it.

   This specification defines two ways to consume the statement format
   and validation rules of [ISSUANCE]:

   *  *Registration profile* (Section 3.2): a client registered through
      [RFC7591] is identified by software_id.  The statement is consumed
      at registration and renewal, and its exp bounds the registration's
      validity (Section 4.1).

   *  *Runtime profile* (Section 3.3): a client is identified by a
      Client ID Metadata Document URL [CIMD] and may be unregistered.
      The client presents the statement in an authorization or token
      request, proves a key that chains to the statement, and is
      established for the resulting grant without creating a persistent
      registration (Section 5.1 and Section 5.5).

   In both profiles, ceasing statement renewal stops new establishment
   after the applicable expiry.  It also stops continued use of an
   existing registration or grant where this specification requires a
   current statement.  It does not revoke access tokens already issued,
   and continuation of runtime-established grants is subject to the
   refresh policy in Section 5.5.1.  These enforcement bounds are
   detailed in Section 11.6.

   This separation lets one issuer curate approved software across many
   authorization servers without making the issuer the final policy
   authority.  Each server independently configures issuer trust,
   subject scope, authoritative metadata, grant policy, and token
   lifetime.  An enterprise operating a statement issuer is the
   motivating deployment (Section 6).

   Statement format, issuance, and validation are defined by [ISSUANCE]
   and are not modified here; the profiles in this document state which
   elements each consumption model requires, and how the client acquired
   its statement is out of scope.  A statement authorizes metadata, not
   its presenter.  Runtime proof of the presenter is what the sender-
   constraint rules of Section 5.3 supply, and nothing in this
   specification attests software instances or binaries.

1.1.  Protocol Overview

   The following non-normative sequences summarize the two models.

   Registration governed by a statement (DCR profile):

   1.  The client registers through [RFC7591], carrying a DCR-profile
       statement in the software_statement member; the statement binds
       to the registration by software_id and, when attested,
       software_version ([ISSUANCE]).

   2.  The authorization server records the statement's identity and exp
       with the registration; the registration is valid until that
       expiry.

   3.  The client delivers a replacement statement in an authenticated
       token request or, where supported, an [RFC7592] update request;
       the registration's validity extends to the replacement's exp.

   4.  If no replacement arrives, the registration expires and requests
       under it fail.  This does not revoke tokens already issued or
       determine the disposition of outstanding grants.

   Runtime presentation (CIMD profile):

   1.  The client includes the software_statement parameter in a token
       request, or in a pushed authorization request for a redirect
       flow, with its Client ID Metadata Document URL as client_id.

   2.  The authorization server validates the statement (Section 3.3),
       verifies the sender-constraint chain (Section 5.3), and derives
       the client's effective metadata for the request (Section 5.4).

   3.  The request proceeds under the effective metadata.  No persistent
       registration is created.

   4.  The state the rest of the grant depends on persists as an
       establishment (Section 5.5).

1.2.  Relationship to Client Attestation

   This section is non-normative.

   A software statement is an attestation.  It is a signed assertion by
   a third party about a client, accepted by an authorization server
   that has configured trust in the signer, and it is no more than that:
   an attributable claim bounded by the signer's process, not proof that
   what it says is true ([ISSUANCE]).  It differs from the client
   attestation of [ABCA] and the client instance assertion of
   [CLIENT-INSTANCE] in subject, authority, lifetime, and effect, not in
   kind.

   Subject:  A software statement attests client software and the
      metadata a reviewer evaluated.  A client attestation attests a
      running instance and the key it holds.

   Authority:  A software statement is signed by a review authority
      whose scope is a set of client identifiers.  A client attestation
      is signed by a client attester whose scope is a deployment of the
      software; the two are configured independently by the
      authorization server.

   Lifetime and audience:  A software statement carries an audience and
      an expiry the reviewer chose, and the same statement is consumed
      at every server in that audience.  A client attestation is short-
      lived and bound to the request it accompanies.

   Effect:  A software statement supplies establishment: which client
      this is, and what metadata a named reviewer stands behind.  A
      client attestation supplies presenter proof: that the party
      sending this request holds a key someone vouches for.  Neither
      grants access, and neither substitutes for the other.

   The two therefore compose.  A deployment holding only a client
   attestation knows what is running but not whether anyone approved it;
   a deployment holding only a software statement knows the software was
   reviewed but not that this sender is running it.  Runtime
   presentation always requires both halves: the statement carries the
   review, and a proof carries the presenter, supplied either by a key
   the statement itself attests or, where it attests none, by a client
   attestation or instance assertion (Section 5.3).

   This specification defines no new attestation format and no new
   attester role.  It defines how a review attestation is consumed, and
   how a presenter attestation defined elsewhere is bound to it.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   OAuth terminology is defined by [RFC6749].  Client metadata and
   software statement terminology is defined by [RFC7591].  Client ID
   Metadata Document terminology is defined by [CIMD].  Statement
   issuance terminology, including Issuing Authorization Server,
   Trusting Authorization Server, and the statement format and
   validation rules, is defined by [ISSUANCE].

   This specification additionally defines the following terms:

   Runtime Presentation:  The consumption of a validated software
      statement inside an authorization or token request, applying its
      attested metadata to that request without creating a persistent
      client registration.

   Statement-Governed Registration:  An [RFC7591] client registration,
      at a server advertising
      software_statement_registration_validity_supported, whose validity
      is bound to a software statement's exp and renewed by replacement
      statements (Section 4.1).

   Establishment:  The durable state a successful runtime presentation
      creates for the grant it opens, enumerated in Section 5.5.

   Proven Key:  The key for which the presenter demonstrates possession
      during runtime presentation.  The accepted proof path binds this
      key to the statement as specified in Section 5.3.

3.  Statement Profiles

   This document consumes the two statement shapes [ISSUANCE] defines,
   discriminated by the presence of cimd_digest: the DCR profile is its
   non-CIMD shape, the CIMD profile its CIMD-anchored shape.  The
   syntax, validation, and semantics of every element are those of
   [ISSUANCE]; this section states which elements each profile requires
   and what each is consumed for.  How the client acquired the statement
   is out of scope: the issuance flows of [ISSUANCE] produce CIMD-
   profile statements, DCR-profile statements are issued by out-of-band
   processes such as an enterprise review console, and neither profile
   requires a particular acquisition path.

3.1.  Common Elements

   Both profiles require the following, in addition to the typ header
   value software-statement+jwt, whose explicit typing prevents
   confusion with other JWTs from the same issuer:

   iss:  REQUIRED.  Identifies the issuer for trust, claim-authority,
      and scope decisions, and forms part of the statement identity
      recorded with a registration or establishment.

   aud:  REQUIRED.  Scopes which authorization servers may accept the
      statement; without it a statement would be usable at every server
      that trusts the issuer.

   iat:  REQUIRED.  The issuance time.

   exp:  REQUIRED.  The expiry the issuer chose.  Under the DCR profile
      it bounds registration validity (Section 4.1); under the CIMD
      profile it is checked at every presentation and at the validity
      points of Section 5.5.  The effect on registrations,
      establishments, grants, and tokens is bounded as Section 11.6
      describes.

   jti:  REQUIRED.  Identifies the statement within the issuer's
      namespace; inventory and concurrency bounds can key on the iss and
      jti pair.  A replacement statement has its own jti, so replacement
      matching does not key on this value.

3.2.  DCR Profile

   For client software registered through [RFC7591] and identified by
   software_id:

   sub:  REQUIRED.  The software's [RFC7591] software_id.  The statement
      binds to a registration request by the identifier rules of
      [ISSUANCE]: a request whose software_id differs from sub is
      rejected.

   software_version:  OPTIONAL.  The version the review covered; when
      attested, a request whose software_version differs is rejected
      ([ISSUANCE]), and a new version requires re-issuance
      (Section 4.3).

   cimd_digest:  MUST be absent; its absence is what marks this profile.
      Attested metadata is inline only, and the statement's own claims
      carry the entire reviewed content.

   A DCR-profile statement is consumed at registration and renewal
   (Section 4).  It cannot be presented at runtime because the runtime
   rules depend on the Client ID Metadata Document named by a CIMD-
   profile subject.

3.3.  CIMD Profile

   For a client identified by a Client ID Metadata Document URL, each
   element is consumed by a specific runtime mechanism, and a statement
   lacking any of them cannot be presented:

   sub:  REQUIRED.  The client's Client ID Metadata Document URL; the
      request's client_id equals it, by the rule of Section 5.1.

   cimd_digest:  REQUIRED.  Binds the issuer's review to the exact
      document bytes evaluated and feeds the post-issuance change policy
      of [ISSUANCE].

   A CIMD-profile statement is presented at runtime (Section 5.1), and
   also serves a registered client whose client_id is its CIMD URL
   (Section 5.6).  A statement failing this profile is rejected as
   Section 7 defines for an invalid statement.

4.  Presentation at Registration

   Under the DCR profile, the statement is consumed in the
   software_statement member of an [RFC7591] registration request.  The
   authorization server validates and binds it as [ISSUANCE] requires,
   with rejections using the [RFC7591] error codes defined there.  This
   section defines the registration's relationship to the statement's
   lifetime.

4.1.  Registration Validity

   An authorization server that advertises
   software_statement_registration_validity_supported as true MUST apply
   this model to every registration it creates from a validated software
   statement.  It MUST record the governing statement's iss, jti, sub,
   iat, and exp with the registration.  The registration is valid until
   that exp.  After it passes without a replacement (Section 4.2), the
   authorization server MUST reject requests under the registration,
   using invalid_client at the token endpoint and, at the authorization
   or pushed authorization request endpoint, the error [RFC6749] defines
   for an unauthorized client, except for the revalidation requests
   Section 4.2 permits.  The server SHOULD retain the expired record so
   that it can process a later authenticated revalidation, and MAY allow
   a grace period during which it accepts a replacement without treating
   the registration as expired.  An expired registration is not an
   unknown client: the difference is observable to a client that
   authenticates, which is what makes recovery possible (Section 11.8).
   Registration expiry does not revoke tokens already issued; the
   disposition of outstanding grants is local policy.

   The metadata signal in Section 9 lets a client determine before
   registration whether this model applies.  The client already holds
   the statement and therefore learns the initial validity boundary from
   its exp.  A server that omits the signal or advertises false can
   still consume a statement as ordinary [RFC7591] registration input,
   but it MUST NOT claim conformance to this registration-validity
   model.

4.2.  Revalidation

   The client renews a statement-governed registration by delivering a
   replacement statement, in any of these ways:

   *  in the software_statement parameter of a token request under the
      registration, authenticated as the registered client under the
      registration's own method;

   *  in the software_statement parameter of an authenticated pushed
      authorization request [RFC9126] under the registration, which is
      the renewal path available to a client that holds no refresh token
      and whose only grant type is the authorization code; or

   *  in the software_statement member of an authenticated [RFC7592]
      update request, where the deployment offers registration
      management.  Such a request replaces the registration's metadata
      in full, as [RFC7592] requires, so the client sends its complete
      current metadata alongside the statement; a renewal-only request
      omitting other members would reset them.

   The replacement MUST validate under [ISSUANCE] with this server in
   its audience, MUST have the governing statement's iss and sub, MUST
   be unexpired, and MUST have an iat no earlier than the recorded
   statement's iat.  Recency rather than a longer lifetime is the
   ordering rule, so an issuer downgrading a review can deliver a
   deliberately short-lived narrowed replacement, while a client cannot
   roll back to an older, broader statement it still holds.  On success
   the authorization server MUST replace the recorded statement
   identity, iat, and exp in a single atomic update; concurrent
   deliveries resolve to the most recently issued statement.  Whether
   attested changes in the replacement update the registration record is
   local registration policy, and a server that relies on narrowing to
   take effect applies them.

   When an expired registration sends a request containing a
   replacement, the authorization server MUST authenticate the retained
   registration and evaluate the replacement before applying the expiry
   rejection.  A valid replacement therefore restores the registration;
   an omitted or invalid replacement does not.

   A request under an expired registration that does not restore it is
   rejected with invalid_client, at every endpoint, including the
   refresh-token grant.  The rejection reports the registration's state,
   not a defect in the grant, so it does not indicate refresh-token
   replay and MUST NOT by itself trigger the refresh-token family
   revocation of [RFC9700]; a client recovers by delivering a valid
   replacement.

   A delivery that fails the rules above under a still-valid
   registration leaves the recorded statement unchanged and does not
   fail the request it accompanies; the authorization server SHOULD
   signal the declined renewal in error_description on a subsequent
   rejection or through its registration management interface, and the
   client can distinguish success by the registration's continued
   validity past the recorded exp.  A registration request without an
   [RFC7592] registration access token creates a new registration and
   never renews an existing one.

4.3.  Version Changes

   A review covers the software the issuer evaluated, and
   software_version is the DCR profile's change signal: its value
   changes on any update to the software.  When the statement attests
   it, the binding rules of [ISSUANCE] reject a registration request
   whose software_version differs.  A replacement delivered outside a
   registration request carries no such member, so the authorization
   server MUST instead compare the replacement's attested
   software_version with the value recorded for the registration: a
   replacement attesting a different version is a version change, not a
   renewal, and the authorization server rejects it unless its
   registration policy accepts the new version and updates the record.
   A new version therefore requires a new review and a statement
   covering it.  A version string is a vendor-asserted label, not a byte
   binding; the guarantee is review-of-what-the-vendor-calls-that-
   version.

   The CIMD profile's change signal is cimd_digest, which is byte-exact:
   a mismatch against the currently published document is a policy input
   under [ISSUANCE], and re-issuance against the new document is the
   remedy.  In both profiles the statement's bounded lifetime caps how
   stale a review can get: drift the change signal misses still expires
   with the statement.

5.  Runtime Presentation

   Under the CIMD profile, the client presents its statement in the
   request.  The authorization server validates it under policy for a
   trusted issuer, verifies the presenter, and applies the effective
   metadata to that request without creating a persistent client
   registration.  This establishes an otherwise unregistered client at
   request time, as [CIMD] resolution does, with the issuer's review
   carried in the statement.

5.1.  Presentation Request

   A client presents a software statement by including the following
   parameter in a token request or a pushed authorization request:

   software_statement:  REQUIRED for presentation.  The software
      statement (Section 3.3).

   The request's client_id is the client's Client ID Metadata Document
   URL.  It MUST exactly equal the statement's sub; the authorization
   server MUST reject a presentation where they differ.  The effective
   client_id is the statement's sub, and the authorization server
   assigns none.

   The request MUST also carry the proof inputs required by the accepted
   sender-constraint mode: client authentication parameters, a DPoP
   proof, the fields defined by [ABCA], or a Client Instance Assertion
   as permitted by [CLIENT-INSTANCE].  A successful presentation
   establishes the client for the request and for the grant state
   derived from it (Section 5.5).

   At the token endpoint, a runtime presentation is valid only on a
   request that can open a new grant or directly issue access under a
   grant not already bound to an establishment.  Authorization-code
   redemption and refresh-token use continue an existing grant and
   follow Section 5.5 and Section 5.5.1 instead.  A request that
   initiates issuance under [ISSUANCE] MUST NOT carry the
   software_statement parameter; the authorization server rejects the
   combination with invalid_request.  Such a request is recognized
   before validation by its issuance signals:
   response_type=software_statement_code at the authorization endpoint,
   and the software statement requested_token_type at the token endpoint
   ([ISSUANCE]).  A request that carries the parameter and is none of a
   runtime presentation, a refresh replacement (Section 5.5.1), a
   revalidation delivery (Section 4.2), or a registered-client delivery
   (Section 5.6) is rejected with invalid_request.

   An authorization server advertises support through
   software_statement_presentation_supported (Section 9).

5.1.1.  Authorization Endpoint

   Presentation in an authorization request MUST use a pushed
   authorization request [RFC9126].  The statement and its proof are
   sent to the pushed authorization request endpoint, where the
   processing rules of Section 5.2 apply.  The subsequent authorization
   request MUST use a client_id exactly equal to the establishment's sub
   and MUST NOT include software_statement.  A statement never appears
   in a front-channel URL, just as [ISSUANCE] keeps an issued statement
   out of authorization responses.

5.1.2.  Token Endpoint

   At the token endpoint, the client includes the parameter in an
   eligible token request as defined by Section 5.1.

5.2.  Presentation Processing

   On receiving a presentation, the authorization server proceeds as
   follows, rejecting as Section 7 defines at the first failure:

   1.  Validate the statement under [ISSUANCE]: format, issuer trust,
       audience, lifetime, and namespace, with digest comparison as the
       policy input defined there.  Complete all validation that does
       not require a client-controlled network retrieval before
       performing such a retrieval.

   2.  Verify the profile of Section 3.3 and the client_id rule of
       Section 5.1.

   3.  Verify the sender-constraint chain (Section 5.3).

   4.  Derive the effective metadata and evaluate the request against it
       (Section 5.4).

   5.  On success, create the establishment (Section 5.5).

5.3.  Sender Constraint

   A runtime presentation MUST be sender-constrained, and the constraint
   MUST chain to the statement.  The presenter proves possession of the
   Proven Key through the applicable client authentication method, a
   DPoP proof [RFC9449], or a proof-of-possession mechanism defined by
   [ABCA] or [CLIENT-INSTANCE].  The proof MUST be bound to the current
   request and validated with the replay protections of that mechanism.
   The authorization server accepts exactly one of the following modes:

   Mode selection is determined by what the statement contains, not by
   local authority configuration.  When the statement attests jwks or
   jwks_uri, only the Directly Attested Key mode is available at every
   server in the statement's audience.  A server that does not treat the
   issuer as authoritative for that member MUST reject the presentation
   rather than allow an endorsement mode; attested key material never
   demotes to client-asserted for the purpose of this section, because
   demotion would let a presenter select a weaker proof at the weakest
   server in the audience.

   Directly Attested Key:  The Proven Key MUST appear in the key set the
      statement attests through jwks or jwks_uri.  When effective
      metadata specifies a client authentication method, the presenter
      MUST use that method, and where the grant type requires client
      authentication, a DPoP proof does not satisfy that requirement
      ([RFC9449]).  A DPoP proof by itself is sufficient only when its
      key is directly attested, the effective metadata requires no other
      authentication method, and the grant type does not require client
      authentication.

   Locally Trusted Client Attestation:  This mode is available only when
      the statement attests no key material.  The authorization server
      MUST validate the client attestation and its proof according to
      [ABCA].  The attestation subject MUST exactly equal the
      statement's sub, its confirmation claim MUST identify the Proven
      Key, and the client attester MUST be trusted for that exact
      subject or its configured namespace.

   Attested Instance Issuer:  This mode is available only when the
      statement attests no key material and attests instance_issuers,
      and only where the server treats the issuer as authoritative for
      that member.  At the token endpoint, the request MAY carry a
      Client Instance Assertion as specified by [CLIENT-INSTANCE].  The
      authorization server MUST validate it against an attested issuer
      descriptor, MUST verify that the assertion's subject identifies
      the software the statement describes, its sub, and the assertion's
      sender key is the Proven Key. An assertion from an attested issuer
      for a different subject, such as another workload in the same
      environment, MUST NOT satisfy this mode.  This specification does
      not define this mode at the pushed authorization request endpoint
      because [CLIENT-INSTANCE] does not define its wire parameters
      there.

   Each mode is gated by the authority behind it: the endorsement modes
   require the server to treat the issuer as authoritative for the
   member they rely on ([ISSUANCE]), and attester trust counts only
   within its configured sub scope.  The authorization server MUST
   reject a presentation without such a proof, or whose Proven Key no
   accepted mode covers.

   A statement that attests neither key material nor an instance-key
   delegation, presented at a server whose attester trust does not cover
   its sub, cannot satisfy this section and is consumable only through
   registration.

   Verifying a key at the attested jwks_uri is a retrieval at
   presentation time.  A fetch failure leaves the chain unverified, and
   the presentation is rejected as invalid_client; the server MUST NOT
   fall back to a weaker mode.  A server MAY reuse a recently retrieved
   key set within ordinary HTTP caching bounds, subject to a maximum
   reuse period of its own choosing; it MUST NOT let the client's cache
   directives alone determine how long a removed key continues to verify
   (Section 11.5).

5.4.  Effective Metadata

   Having validated the statement and its proof, the authorization
   server derives the client's effective metadata for the request:

   *  An attested member for which the server treats the issuer as
      authoritative ([ISSUANCE]) has the value the statement gives it,
      with the precedence [RFC7591] defines.

   *  An attested member outside that set does not take attested
      precedence; per the policy rule of [ISSUANCE], the server ignores
      it or treats it as client-asserted.

   *  A member the statement does not attest takes its value from the
      client's current Client ID Metadata Document, the document at the
      statement's sub, or from a default defined by [RFC7591] where that
      default is compatible with [CIMD] and this runtime model.  Such a
      member is client-asserted metadata, not part of the review.  The
      authorization server MUST resolve that document when the request
      depends on an unattested member.  In particular, a shared-secret
      authentication method cannot be inferred because no client secret
      is assigned by presentation and [CIMD] does not support shared-
      secret client authentication.

   The effective metadata is therefore attested member by member, not
   wholesale.  The authorization server MAY require specific members,
   notably the redirection URIs of a redirect flow, to be attested,
   rejecting a presentation whose statement omits them.

   The request is evaluated against the effective metadata: a
   redirect_uri MUST match an effective redirection URI, and any
   requested grant type, response type, or scope MUST fall within the
   effective metadata.  A grant or response type supported by the
   authorization server but not authorized by the effective metadata
   fails with unauthorized_client; a scope outside the effective
   metadata fails with invalid_scope.

   A trusting authorization server SHOULD use the statement's sub, iss,
   and jti to inventory the establishments derived from one statement
   and MAY bound their concurrent number.  A presentation refused
   because that bound is reached is rejected with invalid_client; the
   statement and its proof are sound, so the authorization server SHOULD
   say so in error_description, and the client can retry once earlier
   establishments are released.

5.5.  Grant Lifecycle

   A successful presentation creates an establishment comprising:

   *  the validated sub;

   *  the statement identity, its iss and jti, and its expiry;

   *  the effective metadata (Section 5.4);

   *  the issuer trust decision; and

   *  the sender-constraint mechanism and Proven Key.

   The establishment persists for as long as the grant depends on it: it
   is created by the presentation, referenced by the grant continuation
   state bound to it, and MAY be discarded once no request_uri,
   authorization code, refresh token, or other continuation state
   references it.  Discarding an establishment ends nothing the grant
   still holds; it is the removal of state no longer reachable.  The
   authorization server MUST bind the resulting request_uri,
   authorization code, refresh token, and other grant continuation state
   to the establishment as applicable.  A token request that redeems an
   authorization code MUST have a client_id exactly equal to the
   establishment's sub, MUST demonstrate possession of the same Proven
   Key under the same sender-constraint mechanism, and MUST NOT carry
   the software_statement parameter.  A redemption carrying a statement
   is rejected with invalid_request; a wrong client identifier or failed
   key binding is rejected with invalid_grant.  This prohibition covers
   redemption of a code bound to an establishment; a registered client
   redeeming its own code may deliver a replacement statement under
   Section 4.2, which is a delivery rather than a presentation.

   A statement MUST be unexpired when presented.  Expiry after
   presentation does not by itself invalidate an establishment already
   bound.  The authorization server controls continued use through its
   grant and refresh-token policy; Section 5.5.1 defines how it can
   require a current replacement statement.

5.5.1.  Refresh

   On refresh-token use the authorization server MUST verify possession
   of the establishment's Proven Key under the same sender-constraint
   mechanism.  It MAY, by local policy, additionally require a current
   unexpired statement, and SHOULD require one once the establishment's
   recorded statement has expired, since that requirement is what makes
   ceased renewal end an existing grant (Section 11.6).

   When policy requires one, the client presents the replacement in the
   software_statement parameter of the refresh request.  The
   replacement:

   *  MUST validate under [ISSUANCE] with this server in its audience;

   *  MUST have the establishment's iss and sub;

   *  MUST have an iat no earlier than the recorded statement's iat, so
      a client cannot roll back to an older, broader statement; and

   *  MUST authorize the establishment's Proven Key (Section 5.3).

   The refreshed access MUST fall within the replacement's effective
   metadata; the grant never widens beyond the original authorization.
   The authorization server MUST recompute the attested members from the
   replacement.  It MAY re-resolve the Client ID Metadata Document for
   unattested members, in which case their current values apply;
   otherwise the recorded values persist for the grant.  Because the
   replacement must authorize the existing Proven Key, this operation
   does not rotate the establishment's key.  A client that needs a new
   key performs a new presentation and opens a new establishment.  On
   success, the establishment's statement identity, iat, expiry,
   effective metadata, and trust decision are replaced in a single
   atomic update; concurrent deliveries resolve to the most recently
   issued statement.  A refresh that fails these requirements, or omits
   a statement that policy requires, is rejected with invalid_grant and
   leaves the establishment unchanged.

5.6.  Registered CIMD Clients

   A client can be registered at an authorization server under its
   Client ID Metadata Document URL as its client_id.  Where such a
   registration exists, a statement-carrying request from that client is
   a delivery, never a runtime presentation: the registration record
   governs the request, and the delivered statement renews validity
   under Section 4.1 without supplying effective metadata for it.
   Runtime presentation establishes clients the server does not have; it
   does not reopen metadata for a client it does.  A server that wishes
   attested changes to reach the registration applies them through its
   registration policy (Section 4.2) or through [RFC7592], where a
   narrower record survives until it does.

   A registration created from a CIMD-profile statement is statement-
   governed when the server advertises
   software_statement_registration_validity_supported.  The validity and
   revalidation model of Section 4.1 and Section 4.2 applies, with the
   delivered statement's sub equal to the registered client_id and
   validated under the CIMD profile.  The request authenticates as the
   registered client under the registration's own method; the delivered
   statement renews validity and does not otherwise alter the
   registration.  A refresh-token request that omits a statement this
   policy requires, or delivers one failing these rules, is rejected
   with invalid_grant; any other token request failing the currency
   requirement is rejected with invalid_client.

6.  Deployment Model: Centrally Curated Software

   This section is non-normative.

   An enterprise that reviews and approves client software operates a
   statement issuer.  Approval of an application is the issuance of a
   short-lived statement: the DCR profile for software its providers
   register through [RFC7591], the CIMD profile for software with hosted
   metadata, each with aud naming the authorization servers of the
   providers where the approval should hold.  Renewal is automatic while
   the approval stands, so registrations stay valid and presentations
   keep succeeding.

   The controls follow from the lifetime machinery.  Onboarding a
   provider is one trust configuration covering the issuer, identifier
   scope, accepted metadata authority, and lifetime policy.  Approved
   applications then carry that review to the provider instead of being
   copied into a separate per-application allowlist.  Ceasing renewal
   prevents new runtime presentations after exp and expires statement-
   governed registrations at their recorded boundary.  It also ends
   refresh-based continuation where the provider requires a current
   statement under Section 5.5.1.  Already-issued access tokens remain
   governed by their own lifetime, and providers retain local control
   over grants and emergency deprovisioning.  Narrowing an approval
   takes effect when the narrower replacement is next consumed.  The
   result is one issuance policy enforced by multiple trusting
   authorization servers, subject to their explicit local policy.

7.  Error Responses

   A statement consumed at registration is rejected with the [RFC7591]
   error codes as [ISSUANCE] defines.  A rejected presentation or
   delivery uses the error responses of [RFC6749] for the endpoint at
   which it was presented.  At the token endpoint:

   invalid_client:  the statement or its proof fails to establish the
      client, including a failed profile (Section 3), chain
      (Section 5.3), or jwks_uri retrieval; also any request under an
      expired statement-governed registration that does not restore it
      (Section 4.2), at every endpoint including the refresh-token
      grant.

   invalid_scope:  a requested scope falls outside the effective
      metadata.

   unauthorized_client:  the client is not permitted by its effective
      metadata to use the requested grant type or response type,
      although the authorization server supports it.

   invalid_request:  any other rejection, including a redemption or
      issuance request carrying the software_statement parameter
      (Section 5.1, Section 5.5).

   At the pushed authorization request endpoint, the corresponding
   [RFC9126] error responses apply.  On refresh-token use of a runtime-
   established grant, Section 5.5.1 takes precedence: a missing or
   failing replacement statement is invalid_grant, the grant's
   continuation failing rather than client establishment.  Registration
   validity is reported differently, as invalid_client under
   Section 4.2, because the registration rather than the grant is what
   lapsed; neither rejection indicates refresh-token replay ([RFC9700]).

   When an otherwise valid proof protocol defines a recoverable, proof-
   specific error, including an error that supplies a DPoP nonce or
   client-attestation challenge, or requests a fresh attestation, that
   error from [RFC9449], [ABCA], or [CLIENT-INSTANCE] takes precedence
   over the generic errors above.

   This surface is coarser than the registration codes and does not tell
   a client whether to seek a corrected statement or a different issuer.
   The authorization server MAY return non-sensitive diagnostics in
   error_description to a client it has authenticated, but MUST NOT
   reveal issuer-trust, subject-namespace, or attester-policy details to
   an unauthenticated requester.

8.  Examples

   Both examples are non-normative.

8.1.  Revalidating a Statement-Governed Registration

   A registered client, client_id s6BhdRkqt3, renews its registration's
   validity by delivering a replacement DCR-profile statement on an
   ordinary refresh, authenticated under its registered method:

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: as.example
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   Authorization: Basic czZCaGRSa3F0Mzo3RmpmcDBaQnIxS3REUmJuZlZkbUl3

   grant_type=refresh_token
   &refresh_token=tGzv3JOkF0XG5Qx2TlKWIA
   &software_statement=eyJ0eXAiOiJzb2Z0d2FyZS1zdGF0ZW1l...

   The authorization server validates the replacement, matches its iss
   and sub to the registration's governing statement, and atomically
   extends the registration's validity to the replacement's exp.  Had
   the request arrived after expiry without a replacement, it would have
   failed with invalid_grant.

8.2.  Presenting at the Token Endpoint

   The following presents an already-issued CIMD-profile statement at
   the token endpoint, sender-constrained by a client attestation
   [ABCA].  The OAuth-Client-Attestation header carries an attestation
   of the instance key from a client attester the server trusts for the
   statement's sub, with that sub as its subject; the OAuth-Client-
   Attestation-PoP header proves that key; the software_statement
   parameter carries the issuer's review; and client_id is the Client ID
   Metadata Document URL named by the statement's sub.  No client record
   exists at this server.

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: as.example
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   OAuth-Client-Attestation: eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6Im9hdXRoLWNsaWVu...
   OAuth-Client-Attestation-PoP: eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6Im9hdXRoLWNs...

   grant_type=client_credentials
   &scope=tools.read
   &client_id=https%3A%2F%2Fclient.example%2Fapp
   &software_statement=eyJ0eXAiOiJzb2Z0d2FyZS1zdGF0ZW1l...

   The authorization server validates the statement, verifies that its
   trust in the attester covers the statement's sub, that the
   attestation's subject is that sub, and that the proof-of-possession
   header proves the attested instance key, and applies the effective
   metadata to the request: the requested scope falls within it, and the
   request authenticates as the client the statement describes.  It
   keeps no registration; the effective client_id is the statement's
   sub.  Here [ABCA] supplies the sender constraint while the parameter
   carries the statement, distinct from a profile that carries the
   statement within the attestation itself (Section 10).

9.  Authorization Server Metadata

   This specification defines the following authorization server
   metadata [RFC8414] values:

   software_statement_presentation_supported:  OPTIONAL.  Boolean value
      indicating whether the authorization server accepts a software
      statement presented at runtime in an authorization or token
      request (Section 5.1), rather than only through [RFC7591]
      registration.  If omitted, the default value is false.  This
      member describes the consuming role.  A value of true advertises
      the path as this specification defines it at every endpoint the
      server's supported grant types make applicable; there is no per-
      endpoint signal.  It does not imply acceptance of any particular
      statement issuer, subject namespace, attested member, or sender-
      constraint mode, and it does not imply support for statement-
      governed registrations.  An authorization server advertising true
      that supports a redirect grant type MUST publish
      pushed_authorization_request_endpoint, since Section 5.1.1 makes
      presentation there the only front-channel path.  A client also
      examines the authorization server metadata for the proof mechanism
      it intends to use, including client-authentication and DPoP
      metadata, client_attestation_pop_methods_supported from [ABCA],
      and client_instance_assertion_supported from [CLIENT-INSTANCE].

   software_statement_registration_validity_supported:  OPTIONAL.
      Boolean value indicating whether every registration the
      authorization server creates from a validated software statement
      is governed by the validity and revalidation rules of Section 4.1
      and Section 4.2.  If omitted, the default value is false.  A value
      of true does not imply runtime-presentation support.  It tells a
      client that the statement's exp will bound the registration and
      that the server accepts replacement delivery through an
      authenticated token request or pushed authorization request and,
      if the server supports [RFC7592], a registration update request.

10.  Extension Points

   This specification defines runtime presentation through the
   software_statement request parameter.  Additional endpoint-specific
   discovery and proof modes are left to extensions.  Two other profiles
   of the same path are also left to extensions: carrying the statement
   within a client attestation [ABCA], and a Client ID Metadata Document
   that references where the client publishes its current statements, so
   a resolving server fetches the review out of band.  The latter
   differs from embedding a statement in the document, which the digest
   rule of [ISSUANCE] forbids.  A discovery signal finer than
   software_statement_presentation_supported, advertising which chains a
   server accepts, is likewise left to an extension.

11.  Security Considerations

11.1.  Statement Theft

   A runtime presentation resists statement theft because the proof
   chains to the statement.  Possession of an arbitrary key constrains
   only the request; the chain to the statement makes possession of a
   stolen statement insufficient unless the attacker also controls a key
   covered by a mode the authorization server accepts.  The registration
   path cannot offer this property.  A DCR-profile statement is a
   reusable bearer artifact until it expires, so [ISSUANCE] relies on
   narrow audience and lifetime plus local limits on registrations
   derived from one statement.

   Selecting the mode by what the statement contains prevents downgrade
   across the audience: when key material is attested, every server in
   the audience either binds the presenter to that key or rejects the
   presentation, so a presenter cannot shop the statement to whichever
   server treats the member as non-authoritative and there obtain an
   endorsement mode.  The authority gates of Section 5.3 serve the same
   end for the endorsement modes: an issuer trusted for other metadata,
   or an attester trusted for other subjects, does not authorize runtime
   keys, and an assertion for a different subject does not satisfy the
   instance-issuer mode.

11.2.  Renewal Authenticates the Credential

   Registration renewal proves possession of the registration's own
   credential and the currency of a statement sharing the governing iss
   and sub.  It does not prove that the renewing party is the reviewed
   software: an attacker holding a stolen client credential can renew
   indefinitely with any current statement for that software, which
   circulates by design to every deployment of it.  Renewal keeps the
   review current, not the credential honest.  Deployments SHOULD pair
   statement-governed registrations with credential rotation, sender-
   constrained client authentication, and the registration limits
   [ISSUANCE] recommends, and SHOULD treat a credential compromise as
   requiring re-registration rather than renewal.  The runtime profile
   does not share this gap, because the sender-constraint chain binds
   the presenter to the review at every presentation.

11.3.  Validation Scope

   A consumed statement is validated under the full ruleset of
   [ISSUANCE]: configured issuer trust with keys obtained from
   authorization server metadata and never from the statement, audience
   and lifetime checks, and identifier-scope authorization for the sub;
   digest comparison remains the policy input [ISSUANCE] defines.
   Nothing in this specification relaxes those rules; it adds the
   sender-constraint chain, the grant bindings of Section 5.5, and the
   registration-validity model on top of them.

11.4.  Key Location versus Keys

   The jwks_uri chain verifies keys at an attested location, not
   attested keys: cimd_digest binds the metadata document's bytes and
   never the key set served at the URI, so compromise of the client's
   key host adds keys that satisfy the chain with no digest signal.
   Deployments for which that exposure is unacceptable prefer statements
   that attest jwks inline, at the cost of digest-visible rotation, or
   pin observed keys and alert on change.  A server reusing a cached key
   set under Section 5.3 additionally accepts that a just-removed key
   can briefly continue to verify.

11.5.  External Retrieval and Resource Exhaustion

   Runtime presentation can cause the authorization server to retrieve
   the Client ID Metadata Document, an attested jwks_uri, or keys and
   metadata associated with an attested instance issuer.  Every such
   retrieval inherits the server-side request forgery protections of
   [CIMD].  A trusted signature does not make a URL safe: the
   authorization server MUST apply its URL, redirect, address-range,
   transport, and content-type policy independently to every referenced
   location.

   Presentation reaches these retrievals before any client is registered
   or any user has interacted, so the work is available to an
   unauthenticated requester holding one acceptable statement.  An
   authorization server SHOULD rate-limit presentations per statement
   identity, per subject, and per source, and SHOULD bound the
   establishments it will create from one statement (Section 5.4),
   before spending retrieval or storage on a new presentation.  Before
   initiating a client-controlled retrieval, the authorization server
   MUST complete the statement checks that do not depend on that
   retrieval, including signature, issuer, audience, lifetime, subject,
   and claim-contract validation.  It SHOULD bound JWT size and parsing
   work, concurrent retrievals, response size, and response time, and
   SHOULD cache successful and failed retrieval results for an
   appropriate period.  A retrieval failure leaves the relevant metadata
   or proof chain unverified; the authorization server MUST reject the
   request and MUST NOT fall back to a weaker sender-constraint mode.

11.6.  Enforcement Bounds

   Expiry is enforced at every presentation and every statement-governed
   registration, so a lapsed statement stops new runtime establishment
   and causes registration-backed requests to fail at the recorded exp.
   It does not retroactively invalidate an establishment, revoke an
   access token, or terminate an outstanding grant.  Requiring a current
   statement on refresh under Section 5.5.1 is the control that makes
   issuer non-renewal end runtime-established grants, and a deployment
   that does not adopt it retains grants for the life of their refresh
   tokens whatever the statement lifetime; registration-backed grants
   remain subject to the server's grant policy after the registration
   expires.  A narrowed re-review takes effect through replacement
   effective metadata or an updated registration.  Detection of post-
   issuance metadata change depends on the signal each profile carries:
   software_version is a vendor-asserted label, while cimd_digest covers
   exact bytes but requires retrieval for comparison.  The bounded
   statement lifetime limits what either signal can miss for new
   establishment.

   Renewal cadence is a deployment trade: short lifetimes tighten the
   issuer's control loop and increase issuance and delivery traffic, and
   a fleet of registrations issued together expires together, so issuers
   SHOULD stagger expiries or renew ahead of the boundary to avoid
   synchronized lapses.

11.7.  Client-Asserted Metadata

   Members the statement does not attest are client-asserted, and
   omission can mean the issuer declined to attest a value.  The
   attested-members-required policy of Section 5.4 is the control for
   deployments that do not want client-asserted values, notably
   redirection URIs, entering effective metadata.  Resolving a Client ID
   Metadata Document for unattested members inherits the resolution
   considerations of [CIMD], including server-side request forgery and
   availability; a server MAY cache resolution results within the
   document's caching directives, and the statement's digest binds the
   review to specific bytes regardless of cache state.

11.8.  Observable State

   A retained expired registration is distinguishable from an unknown
   client, because recovery requires the server to authenticate the
   registration and evaluate a replacement before rejecting.  That
   disclosure is deliberate and bounded: it is available only to a
   requester that authenticates as the registration, so it reveals to
   the legitimate client the state it must act on.  Servers publishing
   software_statement_registration_validity_supported additionally
   disclose that statement-derived registrations expire there, which is
   configuration a client needs before registering.  Neither discloses
   issuer trust, subject scope, or attester policy, which Section 7
   keeps from unauthenticated requesters.

11.9.  Statement Handling

   A software statement remains a sensitive artifact in transit and at
   rest: possession alone does not enable presentation, but statements
   reveal attested metadata and audience relationships, and servers
   SHOULD avoid logging them.

   Error responses can also disclose trust configuration.  The
   restrictions in Section 7 prevent unauthenticated probing of issuer,
   namespace, and attester policy.

12.  Privacy Considerations

   A presentation or delivery reveals to the authorization server the
   client's issuer relationship and the full attested metadata,
   including the audience list, which names the other authorization
   servers the client intends to establish relationships with.  Issuers
   can bound the disclosure by keeping audiences narrow, as [ISSUANCE]
   recommends.  The pushed authorization request requirement of
   Section 5.1.1 keeps statements out of browser history, referrers, and
   front-channel logs.  A central issuer additionally learns, through
   renewal requests, which of its statements are in active use; issuance
   and renewal logs deserve the same care as the statements themselves.

13.  IANA Considerations

13.1.  OAuth Parameters Registry

   This specification requests registration of the software_statement
   parameter in the IANA "OAuth Parameters" registry established by
   [RFC6749], for runtime presentation and statement delivery of the
   artifact defined by [RFC7591]:

   The OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata registry already
   contains a metadata member with the same name.  That entry is in a
   different registry and is unaffected by this registration.

   Parameter Name:  software_statement

   Parameter Usage Location:  authorization request, token request

   Note:  In an authorization request the parameter is conveyed only
      through the pushed authorization request endpoint [RFC9126], never
      in a front-channel URL (Section 5.1.1).

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 5.1

13.2.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry

   This specification requests registration of the following values in
   the IANA "OAuth Authorization Server Metadata" registry established
   by [RFC8414].

   Metadata Name:  software_statement_presentation_supported

   Metadata Description:  Boolean value indicating whether the
      authorization server accepts a software statement presented at
      runtime in an authorization or token request.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 9

   Metadata Name:  software_statement_registration_validity_supported

   Metadata Description:  Boolean value indicating whether registrations
      created from validated software statements are governed by the
      statement validity and revalidation rules of this specification.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 9

14.  Normative References

   [ABCA]     "OAuth 2.0 Attestation-Based Client Authentication", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-
              attestation-based-client-auth>.

   [CIMD]     "OAuth Client ID Metadata Document", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-client-
              id-metadata-document>.

   [CLIENT-INSTANCE]
              "OAuth 2.0 Client Instance Assertion", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              client-instance-assertion>.

   [ISSUANCE] "OAuth 2.0 Software Statement Issuance", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              software-statement-issuance>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>.

   [RFC7591]  Richer, J., Ed., Jones, M., Bradley, J., Machulak, M., and
              P. Hunt, "OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol",
              RFC 7591, DOI 10.17487/RFC7591, July 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7591>.

   [RFC7592]  Richer, J., Ed., Jones, M., Bradley, J., and M. Machulak,
              "OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Management
              Protocol", RFC 7592, DOI 10.17487/RFC7592, July 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7592>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8414>.

   [RFC9126]  Lodderstedt, T., Campbell, B., Sakimura, N., Tonge, D.,
              and F. Skokan, "OAuth 2.0 Pushed Authorization Requests",
              RFC 9126, DOI 10.17487/RFC9126, September 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9126>.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, DOI 10.17487/RFC9449,
              September 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9449>.

   [RFC9700]  Lodderstedt, T., Bradley, J., Labunets, A., and D. Fett,
              "Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security", BCP 240,
              RFC 9700, DOI 10.17487/RFC9700, January 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9700>.

Acknowledgments

   This mechanism began as a consumption section of [ISSUANCE] and was
   split into its own specification so that consumption can evolve
   separately from issuance.  It draws on the working-group discussion
   around Client ID Metadata Documents and attestation-based client
   authentication.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
