



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                          9 October 2026
Expires: 12 April 2027


                        CIMD Software Statement
               draft-mcguinness-oauth-cimd-sw-stmt-latest

Abstract

   A Client ID Metadata Document carries a client's own claims and can
   change at any time.  This specification defines a software statement
   in which a trusted party records its review of the exact bytes of
   such a document.  It also defines how an authorization server
   enforces that review.

   The client presents the statement in a token request or a pushed
   authorization request, or publishes it where the reviewed document
   points.  The statement establishes an otherwise unregistered client
   for that request and the resulting grant.  Admission also requires
   proof of a key the reviewed document carries or, for software
   distributed to end users, a redirect to a redirection URI the
   document lists.  As a result, possession of the statement alone does
   not complete a grant.

   A digest binds the statement to the document, and the document
   remains the metadata.  Thus one review is portable across the
   authorization servers in its audience.  Each of those authorization
   servers keeps control of trust, grants, and token lifetime.  A
   companion specification defines how an authorization server consumes
   the statement at RFC 7591 registration.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 12 April 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Protocol Overview
     1.2.  Relationship to Client Attestation
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  The Software Statement
     3.1.  Metadata Digest
     3.2.  Validating a Statement
     3.3.  Change After Review
   4.  Issuer Trust Establishment
     4.1.  Issuer and Consumer as One Server
     4.2.  Multi-Tenant Issuers
   5.  Runtime Presentation
     5.1.  Presentation Request
       5.1.1.  Authorization Endpoint
       5.1.2.  Token Endpoint
     5.2.  Pulled Statements
     5.3.  Presentation Processing
     5.4.  Sender Constraint
       5.4.1.  Public Clients
     5.5.  Reviewed Metadata
     5.6.  Grant Lifecycle
       5.6.1.  Refresh
   6.  Repeated Consumption of One Statement
   7.  Deployment Model: Centrally Curated Software
   8.  Relationship to Identity Assertions
   9.  Error Responses
   10. Examples
     10.1.  Presenting at the Token Endpoint
     10.2.  Publishing a Statement for Servers to Pull
   11. Authorization Server Metadata
   12. Extension Points
   13. Security Considerations
     13.1.  Statement Theft and Replay
     13.2.  Servers That Do Not Implement This Specification
     13.3.  Copied Statements and Public Clients
     13.4.  Tenant Confusion at a Multi-Tenant Consumer
     13.5.  External Retrieval and Resource Exhaustion
     13.6.  Enforcement Bounds
     13.7.  Status Resolution
     13.8.  Document Resolution
     13.9.  Observable State
     13.10. Statement Handling
   14. Privacy Considerations
   15. IANA Considerations
     15.1.  OAuth Parameters Registry
     15.2.  Media Type Registration
     15.3.  Claims Defined Elsewhere
     15.4.  JSON Web Token Claims Registry
     15.5.  OAuth Extensions Error Registry
     15.6.  OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata Registry
     15.7.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry
   16. References
     16.1.  Normative References
     16.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   A Client ID Metadata Document [CIMD] identifies a client by a URL and
   supplies its metadata from a document that the client controls.  That
   metadata is the client's own claim and can change at any time.  An
   organization that reviews client software can be, for example, a
   publisher program, an enterprise security function, or an ecosystem
   operator.  Such an organization has no interoperable way to record
   its review of a particular version of the document.  It also has no
   interoperable way to make an authorization server that it never dealt
   with enforce that review.

   This specification defines that record and how an authorization
   server enforces it.  The software statement (Section 2.3 of
   [RFC7591]) profiled here names the client by its document URL.  The
   statement binds the review to the exact octets of the document by a
   digest (Section 3.1).

   An authorization server that trusts the statement's issuer admits the
   client at request time on the reviewed document, and no other
   (Section 5).  The authorization server does not create a
   registration.  The document remains the metadata, and the statement
   carries the decision.  Thus one review is portable across every
   authorization server in its audience.  Each of those authorization
   servers configures its own issuer trust, subject scope, grant policy,
   and token lifetime.  An enterprise operating a statement issuer is
   the motivating deployment (Section 7).

   The UK Open Banking Directory and the Australian Consumer Data Right
   Register each operate a central issuer ([UK-OPEN-BANKING], [AU-CDR]).
   Many unrelated authorization servers consume the statements of these
   issuers at registration, through the [RFC7591] software_statement
   parameter.  Neither system conforms to this specification, because
   neither binds a statement to a document version that the
   authorization server retrieves.  Both systems also carry client
   metadata in the statement.

   [OPENID-FED] conveys attested metadata through trust chains.  In a
   federation, an authorization server resolves an entity to a trust
   anchor, rather than configuring the issuer that vouched for the
   entity.  The authorization server applies metadata derived by policy
   along that trust chain.  This specification instead keeps the
   reviewed document as the metadata and leaves issuer trust to local
   configuration (Section 4).

   A federation can supply that issuer trust and can carry a review as a
   trust mark.  But resolved metadata is not the octets that a digest
   covers.  Thus a client's metadata comes from one source or the other,
   not both.  Ecosystems that already operate a federation should
   consider its registration mechanisms first.

   This specification defines the statement, its validation, issuer
   trust configuration (Section 4), and runtime consumption (Section 5).
   [ISSUANCE] defines how a client obtains a statement.  [REGISTRATION]
   defines how a trusting authorization server consumes the same
   statement in an [RFC7591] registration request, where the statement's
   expiry bounds the registration.  It builds on this specification, but
   this specification does not depend on it.

   A statement authorizes metadata, not its presenter.  Nothing in this
   specification attests software instances or binaries.  How the
   presenter is bound depends on the kind of client (Section 5.4):

   *  A confidential client proves a key that the reviewed document
      carries.

   *  Software distributed to end users can hold no such key.  The
      reviewed redirection URIs bind that software instead.

   *  Software whose redirection URIs another application could claim is
      reviewed, but an authorization server does not admit it on the
      strength of the review.

   This specification defines only one layer of the decision to let a
   client act.  That layer is admission, which sits above the sender-
   constraint proof that identifies the presenter and the grant that
   carries a user's authorization.  A statement records who reviewed the
   software and what they attested.  It does not record whether a
   particular customer currently permits the software to operate in its
   tenant.  That question is answered on the customer's schedule, not on
   the reviewer's schedule.  Where a customer's identity provider
   mediates the grant, that provider answers the question continuously
   by whether it issues an assertion (Section 8).

   A tenant-scoped decision (aud_tenant) constrains where a review
   applies.  It does not authorize any particular user or transaction.

   Ceasing statement renewal stops new admissions after the applicable
   expiry.  It also ends the continuation of a grant where the server
   requires a current statement (Section 5.6.1).  It does not revoke
   issued access tokens (Section 13.6).

1.1.  Protocol Overview

   The following non-normative sequence summarizes runtime admission:

   1.  The client uses its Client ID Metadata Document URL as client_id.
       It presents its statement in a token request or, for a redirect
       flow, in a pushed authorization request (Section 5.1).
       Alternatively, it publishes the statement at the
       software_statements_uri that its document names (Section 5.2).

   2.  The authorization server validates the statement (Section 3).  It
       resolves the reviewed document (Section 5.5).  It verifies the
       sender constraint against that document (Section 5.4).

   3.  The request proceeds under the metadata of that document.  The
       authorization server creates no persistent registration.

   4.  The state on which the rest of the grant depends persists as an
       establishment (Section 5.6).

1.2.  Relationship to Client Attestation

   This section is non-normative.

   A software statement is an attestation: a signed third-party
   assertion about a client, accepted by an authorization server that
   trusts the signer.  It is an attributable claim bounded by the
   signer's process, not proof that what it says is true.  It differs
   from the client attestation of [ABCA] and the client instance
   assertion of [CLIENT-INSTANCE] in subject, authority, lifetime, and
   effect, not in kind.

   Subject:  A software statement attests client software and the
      metadata that a reviewer evaluated.  A client attestation attests
      a running instance and the key that it holds.

   Authority:  A review authority whose scope is a set of client
      identifiers signs a software statement.  A client attester whose
      scope is a deployment of the software signs a client attestation.
      An authorization server configures trust in the two independently.

   Lifetime and audience:  A software statement carries a reviewer-
      chosen expiry and, optionally, an audience.  Every authorization
      server that trusts the statement's issuer consumes the statement,
      within the audience where the statement names one.  A client
      attestation carries its own expiry.  The client presents the
      attestation with a proof bound to the request that the attestation
      accompanies.

   Effect:  A software statement supports admission: it says which
      client this is and what metadata a named reviewer vouches for.  A
      client attestation supplies presenter proof: that the party
      sending this request holds a key someone vouches for.  Neither
      grants access.  Neither substitutes for the other.

   A deployment that holds only a client attestation knows what is
   running, but it does not know whether anyone approved it.  A
   deployment that holds only a software statement knows that the
   software was reviewed, but it does not know that this sender is
   running it.  Runtime presentation therefore always requires both the
   statement and a sender constraint (Section 5.4).

   This specification defines no new attestation format and no new
   attester role.  Where the presenter proves a key that the reviewed
   document carries, it uses ordinary client authentication or DPoP.
   Binding a presenter attestation defined elsewhere is an extension
   (Section 12).

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   This specification uses terminology from [RFC6749] (OAuth), [RFC7591]
   (client metadata and software statements), and [CIMD] (Client ID
   Metadata Documents).

   This specification defines the following terms.

   Issuing Authorization Server:  The authorization server that makes
      the issuance decision and signs the software statement.

   Trusting Authorization Server:  An authorization server that consumes
      a software statement, at runtime under this specification or at
      registration under [REGISTRATION].

   Runtime Presentation:  The consumption of a validated software
      statement presented in a token request or pushed authorization
      request, or pulled from where the client's document points
      (Section 5.2).  Runtime presentation applies the metadata of the
      document that the statement vouches for, and does not create a
      persistent client registration.

   Establishment:  The durable state that a successful runtime
      presentation creates for the grant that it opens, enumerated in
      Section 5.6.

   Proven Key:  The key for which the presenter demonstrates possession
      during runtime presentation.  The accepted proof path binds this
      key to the statement as Section 5.4 specifies.

   Refusal Record:  The state that an authorization server holds when it
      has learned that a statement ceased to be acceptable before its
      expiry, whether from a status it resolved (Section 3.2) or from
      its own operator.  Wherever this specification requires a
      statement to be current, a statement that matches a refusal record
      is not current.  A refusal derived from a resolved status lasts
      only as long as that status.  A later resolution supersedes it.  A
      server MUST NOT retain a refusal derived from a resolved status
      once a later resolution no longer supports it.  A refusal that its
      operator entered persists on the operator's own terms.

3.  The Software Statement

   The software statement is a compact JWT [RFC7519] protected by JWS
   [RFC7515].  [RFC7591] permits a MAC.  However, a statement issued
   under this specification MUST use an asymmetric digital signature.
   Thus trusting authorization servers need not receive an issuer-held
   symmetric key.

   The issuer and the trusting authorization server MUST follow the
   algorithm-verification guidance of [RFC8725].  The none algorithm and
   symmetric algorithms MUST NOT be used.  An issuer advertises its
   signing algorithms in its authorization server metadata ([ISSUANCE]).

   The JOSE header MUST include the kid header parameter, which
   identifies the signing key within the issuer's statement key set
   (Section 11).  The JOSE header MUST include the typ header parameter
   with the value software-statement+jwt, applying Section 3.11 of
   [RFC8725].  This value is the media type application/software-
   statement+jwt (Section 15.2) with the application/ prefix omitted
   (Section 4.1.9 of [RFC7515]).  Explicit typing prevents confusion
   with other JWTs from the same issuer.  Extensions can add claims.  An
   incompatible revision would use a new typ value.

   A statement asserts that its issuer evaluated the Client ID Metadata
   Document whose content the digest identifies.  The statement vouches
   for that document to any party that accepts the issuer.  The JWT
   payload MUST contain the following claims.

   iss:  REQUIRED.  The issuer identifier of the issuing authorization
      server, as defined by [RFC8414].

   sub:  REQUIRED.  The exact client identifier URL presented in the
      request that produced the statement.

   aud:  OPTIONAL.  One or more authorization server issuer identifiers
      ([RFC8414]) that restrict which authorization servers may accept
      the statement.  Where the claim is present, a trusting
      authorization server MUST reject the statement unless one of its
      locally configured audience identifiers exactly matches a value in
      it.  [ISSUANCE] states the corresponding constraint on an issuer:
      a requested audience bounds what it may name.  Where the claim is
      absent, the statement is unrestricted.  Acceptance then rests on
      the trusting authorization server's configured trust in the issuer
      and its identifier scope (Section 4).  If an issuer omits the
      claim, one review can serve every authorization server that trusts
      the issuer.  But any holder of a copy can then also use that copy
      at any of those authorization servers.  Where statement_uses
      permits registration, a holder can always choose registration,
      which requires no key.  An issuer SHOULD therefore name an
      audience, and omit it only where it accepts that any server
      trusting it may register the software on the strength of a copy
      ([REGISTRATION]).

   aud_tenant:  OPTIONAL.  A tenant identifier at a trusting
      authorization server, as [IDJAG] defines the claim.  It names the
      tenant in which the decision of this statement applies.  A
      statement whose decision is confined to one tenant MUST carry
      aud_tenant.  A trusting authorization server MUST reject a
      statement carrying aud_tenant unless the value identifies the
      tenant the request belongs to.  A trusting authorization server
      MUST NOT read the absence of aud_tenant as meaning that the
      statement applies in every tenant.  This is because an issuer also
      omits the claim where the trusting authorization server is single-
      tenant, or where the issuer does not know the identifier.  A
      trusting authorization server that requires a tenant-scoped
      decision and finds no aud_tenant rejects the statement, and does
      not choose between those readings.  A listing review that applies
      wherever its aud reaches carries no aud_tenant.

   statement_uses:  OPTIONAL.  A JSON array that identifies the
      permitted uses of the statement: registration ([REGISTRATION]) and
      presentation (Section 5).  A trusting authorization server MUST
      reject a statement for a use the array does not name, treating a
      member it does not recognize as naming no use it serves.  If the
      claim is absent, only presentation is permitted.  An issuer that
      intends a statement for registration includes registration.  A
      statement is usable at registration only where its issuer says so
      ([REGISTRATION]).  This is because registration requires no key,
      and anyone can read a statement published for pulling
      (Section 5.2).  A delivery that renews a registration
      ([REGISTRATION]) is a use at registration.  A refresh replacement
      (Section 5.6.1) and a pulled statement are presentation.

   iat:  REQUIRED.  A NumericDate value that represents the time at
      which the issuer issued the software statement.  An issuer MUST
      NOT issue two statements for a given iss and sub pair with the
      same iat.  The issuer MUST also ensure that this value increases
      strictly across its signing nodes.  As a result, the order in
      which the issuer made its decisions is recoverable from the
      statements themselves.  Trusting authorization servers rely on
      that order when one statement replaces another (Section 5.6.1,
      [REGISTRATION]).  Thus a statement back-dated for clock skew
      cannot serve as a replacement.

   exp:  REQUIRED.  A NumericDate value that represents the expiration
      time.  A trusting authorization server MUST reject an expired
      statement.

   jti:  REQUIRED.  A unique identifier for the statement within the
      issuer's namespace.

   cimd_digest:  REQUIRED.  The metadata digest (Section 3.1) of the
      Client ID Metadata Document that the issuer evaluated.  It binds
      the statement to the exact document content that the issuer
      evaluated.  Thus any party can determine whether the client's
      currently published metadata still matches it.

   status:  OPTIONAL.  The status claim as [STATUSLIST] defines it,
      locating this statement in the issuer's Status List Token.  It
      lets an issuer end a decision before exp without a trusting
      authorization server contacting the issuer for each statement.
      [ISSUANCE] requires an issuer that publishes status to carry the
      claim in every statement that it issues from then on.  This is
      because a trusting authorization server cannot otherwise
      distinguish a statement that omits the claim from a statement
      whose issuer publishes no status.

   A statement issued under this specification MUST NOT contain client
   metadata claims.  The reviewed metadata is the document that the
   digest names.  Metadata copied into the statement would duplicate
   what the digest binds.  It would also reopen questions of precedence
   and partial review.  Vouching for particular members without binding
   the whole document requires an extension (Section 12).  Such an
   extension defines what a partial review asserts and how a trusting
   authorization server applies it.

   [CIMD] permits a Client ID Metadata Document to carry a
   software_statement member.  A trusting authorization server MUST NOT
   consume a statement of this profile from that member.  A trusting
   authorization server MUST NOT treat that member as satisfying any
   requirement of this specification.  A statement of this profile
   cannot describe the document that carries it, because its digest
   would have to cover its own bytes.  A statement of this profile found
   in that member names an earlier version.  The member may also carry
   statements of other kinds, which this specification does not
   evaluate.

   The issuer sets the lifetime, and any audience restriction, by
   policy.  A short lifetime bounds exposure and keeps the review fresh.
   However, at an authorization server that implements the registration-
   validity model of [REGISTRATION], the lifetime is also the
   registration's validity.  As a result, at such a server the lifetime
   sets the renewal cadence that both parties must sustain.

   The sub claim is the client identifier URL, not the local client_id
   assigned through [RFC7591] registration.  A trusting authorization
   server MAY use sub to correlate registrations and apply per-client
   policy (Section 6).

3.1.  Metadata Digest

   The metadata digest is the unpadded base64url-encoded SHA-256 hash
   [RFC6234] of the retrieved representation body after removal of
   content coding.  The body is not transcoded, normalized, or re-
   serialized.  Any byte order mark or trailing newline is included.

   Retrieval for digest purposes MUST NOT use content negotiation.  The
   retrieving party sends Accept: application/json and no other variant
   selection.  It decodes any content coding before it computes the
   digest.  When retrieving a document for digest purposes, the
   retrieving party MUST follow the retrieval rules of [CIMD], including
   its prohibition on automatically following redirects.

   Therefore, a document served as negotiated variants cannot carry a
   usable statement.  This is because parties that retrieve it
   independently obtain different octets.  This result follows from the
   digest.  It is not a requirement on what a publisher may serve.

   An issuer computes the digest over the document that it evaluated.  A
   trusting authorization server computes the digest over the document
   that it retrieves.  Equal digests show that the two documents are the
   same octets (Section 5.5).

   Three retrieval conditions affect the comparison:

   *  [CIMD] recommends reading no more than a bounded number of octets
      and treating a longer response as an error.  A trusting
      authorization server MUST treat a response exceeding its
      configured bound as a retrieval failure rather than digesting what
      it read.  This is because a digest computed over a truncated read
      is not the digest of the document.

   *  A shared cache may hold a variant selected for some other request.
      A server MUST NOT compare a digest against a representation it did
      not itself retrieve, or store under this section, or retain as
      [REGISTRATION] permits.  A 304 Not Modified response shows that
      the stored octets are still current, and that their digest still
      applies, only where it carries a strong entity tag equal to the
      one stored with those octets.  A conditional request with If-None-
      Match is evaluated with weak comparison (Section 13.1.2 of
      [RFC9110]).  Thus a 304 without such a tag does not show that the
      octets are unchanged.  In that case, the server retrieves the body
      again.

   *  The issuer and the trusting authorization server must obtain
      identical octets.  Any condition that makes retrieval depend on
      who is asking defeats the comparison.

3.2.  Validating a Statement

   Before it accepts a statement, a trusting authorization server MUST
   do all of the following:

   *  Verify that the typ JOSE header parameter carries the value
      software-statement+jwt.

   *  Verify the signature under a key trusted for the exact iss value,
      obtained as Section 4 requires.

   *  Verify that every required claim of Section 3 is present and has
      the correct type, and reject a statement that omits one.

   *  Verify iat and exp.  Reject an expired statement, and reject a
      statement whose iat is unreasonably far in the future according to
      the server's clock-skew policy.

   *  Where the statement carries aud, verify that one of the server's
      own audience identifiers appears in aud.

   *  Where the statement carries aud_tenant, verify that the aud_tenant
      value identifies the tenant that this request belongs to.  Resolve
      that tenant before evaluating the statement, by the server's own
      means or from a signed assertion that the server validated.  Never
      resolve that tenant from a value that the client chooses.

   *  Verify that statement_uses names the use that the server makes of
      the statement or, where the claim is absent, that the use is
      presentation.

   *  Verify that sub is a client identifier URL that conforms to
      [CIMD].  Also verify that sub falls within the identifier scope
      for which this server accepts the issuer (Section 4).

   *  Reject a statement that carries any claim registered in the IANA
      "OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata" registry, which
      Section 3 forbids.  Ignore any other claim that the server does
      not recognize.

   *  Apply the JWT validation guidance in [RFC8725].

   Where the statement carries status and the trusting authorization
   server resolves statuses for that issuer, all of the following apply:

   *  The trusting authorization server MUST reject a statement whose
      status is INVALID.

   *  The trusting authorization server MUST apply its configured policy
      for that issuer to a statement whose status is SUSPENDED.

   A rejection on status uses the refusal-record row of Section 9,
   because re-presenting the same statement cannot succeed while that
   status stands.

   Where a trusting authorization server resolves statuses for an
   issuer, resolution follows [STATUSLIST].  This includes its caching
   rules, and its requirement to reject where the referenced index lies
   outside the list.  Such a server MAY therefore decide from a Status
   List Token it already holds within that token's validity.  A server
   MUST NOT replace a Status List Token it holds with one whose iat is
   earlier.  The server MUST treat a token with the held token's iat but
   different contents as a resolution failure.  Otherwise, a host that
   serves an older token could restore a status that the issuer has
   withdrawn.

   An issuer gives each token it publishes at a list URI a later iat
   than the last ([ISSUANCE]).

   Status constrains and never relaxes.  A statement that carries no
   status, or whose status the server cannot resolve, is bounded by exp
   as it would be otherwise.  A server MUST NOT treat status as grounds
   to accept a statement past exp.  What a server does when resolution
   fails is local policy.  Refusing makes issuer availability a
   precondition for every request that the statement governs.
   Proceeding leaves a withdrawn statement acceptable for the rest of
   its lifetime.

   A trusting authorization server accepts only configured issuers
   (Section 4).  It obtains their statement signing keys from the
   software_statement_jwks_uri value in the issuer's authorization
   server metadata (Section 11), never from the statement.

   A trusting authorization server that resolves the reviewed document
   MUST reject a document that contains duplicate object member names.
   This is because parsers interpret duplicate member names differently,
   despite an identical digest.

   [REGISTRATION] defines rejections at a registration endpoint.
   Rejections elsewhere use Section 9.

3.3.  Change After Review

   A review covers the document that cimd_digest identifies.  At
   registration, a digest mismatch is fatal ([REGISTRATION]), because
   the registration would otherwise record metadata that no issuer
   reviewed.  At runtime, a mismatch is a policy input rather than an
   automatic failure.  The statement still names a document that the
   issuer reviewed.  The authorization server decides how to treat the
   change.  Either way, the remedy is re-issuance against the current
   document.

   An issuer reviews the document that it retrieves from the client
   identifier URL.  Thus a changed document is always served before any
   statement over it exists.  A publisher shortens that gap by arranging
   prompt review.  The bounded lifetime of the statement limits how
   stale a review can become.  Drift that the digest comparison never
   observes still expires with the statement.

4.  Issuer Trust Establishment

   A trusting authorization server accepts statements only from
   configured issuers.  Trust is established out of band, for example
   through a marketplace publisher program or a shared enterprise
   operation.  This specification defines no in-band issuer discovery or
   trust decision.

   For each trusted issuer, a trusting authorization server records all
   of the following, at a minimum:

   *  The exact iss identifier that it will accept.

   *  The source of that issuer's statement signing keys: the
      software_statement_jwks_uri in the issuer's authorization server
      metadata (Section 11), discovered from the configured iss as
      [RFC8414] describes.  This source is never the issuer's jwks_uri,
      whose keys sign other artifacts.

   *  The signing algorithms that it will accept from the issuer.

   *  The client identifier namespaces that the issuer may attest
      through sub.

   *  The audience identifiers that the issuer may name.

   *  The maximum statement lifetime that it will honor.  Where the
      server implements the registration-validity model of
      [REGISTRATION], this lifetime also caps registration validity.

   *  Its policy on repeated and multiple registration (Section 6).

   These inputs, not the signature alone, define acceptance.  A trusting
   authorization server MUST derive trust from this local configuration.
   It MUST NOT derive trust from an iss, jku, x5u, or other key-location
   value that a presented statement carries.

   Issuer trust SHOULD be scoped as well as explicit.  Trust
   configuration SHOULD constrain each issuer to the client identifier
   namespaces it is expected to attest.  Examples of such namespaces are
   URLs under the domains of the software publishers that the issuer
   serves.  A trusting authorization server MUST reject a statement
   whose sub is outside the issuer's configured scope, even when its
   signature verifies (Section 3.2).  Without such a scope, a
   compromised or over-broad issuer can mint acceptable statements about
   any client software.

   For an issuer that attests software across many publishers, the scope
   is the set of identifiers that it is configured for, not a single
   domain.  An enterprise issuer is an example of such an issuer.

   A trusting authorization server can configure an issuer whose
   decisions are confined to one of its tenants.  A customer's own
   issuer is an example.  For an issuer confined to one tenant, the
   server SHOULD record with that configuration the client identifier
   namespaces for which the issuer's decision is required in that
   tenant.  For a client in such a namespace, only a current statement
   from that issuer establishes reviewed software in that tenant,
   whatever other issuers' statements say.

   A server that records such a requirement MUST NOT admit software in a
   covered namespace in that tenant without a current statement from the
   required issuer, whatever its policy for clients it has not reviewed.
   Without this rule, withholding the statement would restore access
   that the customer withdrew.  The requirement is configured, not
   inferred from the statements that the server sees.  Therefore, a
   holder cannot evade a customer's withdrawal by presenting or
   publishing only a broader listing (Section 7).  A required issuer
   configured for software whose documents are presented review-only
   (Section 5.4.1) excludes that software from the tenant, since no
   statement admits it there.

4.1.  Issuer and Consumer as One Server

   An authorization server that issued a statement already holds the
   decision that statement records.  Where it is the trusting
   authorization server, it MAY admit the client on that record, at
   registration or at runtime.  In that case, the server does not
   require the client to present the statement back to it.

   Such a server MUST apply the conditions that it would apply to a
   presentation, which are all of the following:

   *  The recorded decision is unexpired, and so is the registration
      where the validity model of [REGISTRATION] governs it.

   *  Its status is current, where the server publishes status
      (Section 3.2).

   *  The server has obtained the document at sub.

   *  That document's digest equals the recorded digest (Section 3.1).

   The server applies these conditions because a decision that it made
   is not a document that it has re-read.

   A client that deals only with the server that reviewed it therefore
   presents nothing.  Portability matters only to other servers.

4.2.  Multi-Tenant Issuers

   Where the tenants of an issuer serving several customers are
   independently trusted reviewing authorities, the issuer MUST issue
   under a distinct iss for each tenant.  Each tenant's decisions, keys,
   statuses, and watermark then stay separate.  A trusting authorization
   server then configures trust for each tenant, as Section 4 describes.
   A statement carries no claim naming the issuer's tenant.

   If several such authorities issue under one iss, their statements
   about the same software are indistinguishable by iss and sub.  As a
   result, the watermark of Section 6 treats the later statement as
   superseding the earlier statement.  Thus, one customer's renewal
   invalidates the other customer's review, for no reason that customer
   can observe.

5.  Runtime Presentation

   The client presents its statement in the request, or publishes it
   where its document points (Section 5.2).  The authorization server
   does all of the following:

   *  It validates the statement under policy for a trusted issuer.

   *  It verifies the presenter.

   *  It applies the reviewed document's metadata to that request,
      without creating a persistent client registration, as [CIMD]
      resolution does.

5.1.  Presentation Request

   A client presents a software statement by including the following
   parameter in a token request or a pushed authorization request:

   software_statement:  REQUIRED for presentation.  The software
      statement (Section 3).  The authorization server consumes it as a
      runtime presentation, a refresh replacement (Section 5.6.1), or,
      where the server implements [REGISTRATION], a revalidation
      delivery under that specification.  The authorization server
      rejects a request that carries the parameter in any other role,
      with invalid_request.  The authorization server MUST verify that
      it accepts the statement's issuer for the subject (Section 4).  It
      MUST reject a request that repeats the parameter, with
      invalid_request.

   The request's client_id is the client's Client ID Metadata Document
   URL.  The client_id MUST exactly equal the statement's sub.  The
   authorization server MUST reject a presentation where these values
   differ, with invalid_client.  The effective client_id is the
   statement's sub.  The authorization server assigns no client_id.

   The request MUST also carry the proof that Section 5.4 requires, in
   any of the following forms:

   *  Client authentication under a method that the reviewed document
      specifies.

   *  A DPoP proof with a key that the reviewed document carries.

   *  For a public client, the PKCE and dpop_jkt binding of
      Section 5.4.1.

   A successful presentation establishes the client for the request and
   for the grant state derived from it (Section 5.6).

   At the token endpoint, a runtime presentation is valid on a request
   that uses any of the following grants:

   *  The client_credentials grant.

   *  The JWT or SAML assertion grants of [RFC7521].

   *  Another grant that an authorization server names in
      software_statement_presentation_grant_types_supported
      (Section 11).

   Authorization-code redemption and refresh-token use continue an
   existing grant.  They follow Section 5.6 and Section 5.6.1 instead.

   A request to issue a software statement, not to consume one, MUST NOT
   carry the software_statement parameter.  [ISSUANCE] defines the
   response type, grant type, and requested token type that identify
   such a request.

   An authorization server advertises support through
   software_statement_presentation_supported (Section 11).

5.1.1.  Authorization Endpoint

   Presentation in an authorization request MUST use a pushed
   authorization request [RFC9126].  A pulled statement never travels in
   a request.  It needs no pushed authorization request (Section 5.2).

   The pushed authorization request endpoint processes the statement and
   its proof as Section 5.3 describes.  The subsequent authorization
   request MUST use a client_id exactly equal to the establishment's
   sub.  It MUST NOT include the software_statement parameter.  A
   statement therefore never appears in a front-channel URL.

5.1.2.  Token Endpoint

   The client includes the parameter in an eligible token request
   (Section 5.1).

5.2.  Pulled Statements

   A client can publish its statements rather than present them.  Its
   Client ID Metadata Document then carries the following client
   metadata member:

   software_statements_uri:  OPTIONAL.  URL, in a Client ID Metadata
      Document, at which the client publishes software statements about
      itself.  The member has no meaning in a registration request.  The
      URL MUST use the https scheme.  A request to the URL returns a
      JSON object whose software_statements member is an array of
      statements (Section 3).  Each statement is a string in JWS compact
      serialization.

   The metadata digest covers the software_statements_uri member
   (Section 3.1).  Therefore, a change to this member changes the
   document that every statement names.

   An authorization server that supports pulled statements MAY retrieve
   this URL when it resolves the document of a client that presented no
   statement.  When it retrieves this URL, the server does all of the
   following:

   *  It sends a GET request with Accept: application/json.

   *  It does not automatically follow redirects.

   *  It accepts only a 200 response with a JSON media type.

   *  It applies the protections that [CIMD] sets for URLs that a
      document contains, and the bounds of Section 13.5.

   *  It bounds the response size and the number of statements that it
      examines, separately from the document's bounds.  The bounds are
      separate because several issuers' statements outgrow a document-
      sized bound, and a host can pad the array.

   *  It discards statements from issuers that it has not configured,
      before it verifies any signature.

   *  It caches a successful response no longer than it caches the
      document, and does not cache a failure, as [CIMD] requires of the
      document.

   The authorization server MAY revalidate a cached response from that
   URL with a conditional request, as with the document (Section 3.1).
   The server retrieves both the document and this URL before any
   statement exists to validate.  Therefore, the ordering of Section 5.3
   applies from the first statement verified onward.

   The server considers only statements that meet all of the following
   conditions:

   *  The statement's sub equals the document's client identifier.

   *  The statement validates under Section 3.2.

   *  The statement permits presentation (Section 3).

   *  The statement's cimd_digest equals the digest of the document that
      the server resolved.

   The server ignores the other statements, because anyone who can
   publish at the URL can place anything there.

   Where its trust configuration requires an issuer for this client
   (Section 4), the server applies only that issuer's statement, and
   where none remains, the client is not reviewed.  Otherwise, where
   more than one statement remains, it applies any of them, taking the
   latest iat from each issuer, subject to the watermark of Section 6.
   A pulled statement that the server does not apply does not advance
   the watermark.

   The server then continues from step 4 of Section 5.3.  It uses the
   pulled statement in place of a presented statement.  The document is
   already resolved.  The selection above satisfies the client_id rule
   of step 2.

   The presenter of a pulled statement is bound as for a presented
   statement (Section 5.4), at the point that the request allows.  The
   following cases apply:

   *  At the token endpoint, the request's client authentication or DPoP
      proof binds the presenter, as for a presentation there.

   *  At the authorization endpoint, binding completes at code
      redemption, before the server issues any token.  A confidential
      client authenticates there with a key carried by the octets that
      the server digested.  The key is not one that only a later
      retrieval of the document carries.  That key becomes the
      establishment's proven key.  A public client's authorization
      request is subject to Section 5.4.1, including PKCE and dpop_jkt.
      Redemption proves the dpop_jkt key.

   *  A public client that opens a new grant at the token endpoint has
      nothing to bind.  A statement pulled for it is therefore review-
      only (Section 5.4.1).  A statement pulled for a document whose
      redirection URIs that section does not accept is also review-only.
      Code redemption and refresh continue an establishment.  They keep
      the binding that the establishment already has (Section 5.6,
      Section 5.6.1).

   Where retrieval does not complete or no statement remains, the server
   applies its policy for Client ID Metadata Document clients it has not
   reviewed.  Where that policy requires reviewed software and retrieval
   did not complete, the server rejects the request with
   temporarily_unavailable.  Where that policy requires reviewed
   software and no statement remains, the server rejects the request
   with statement_required.  A retrieval failure is never a withdrawal.

   On refresh, where Section 5.6.1 needs a replacement for an
   establishment created from a pulled statement, the server pulls
   again.  It then applies the newest statement with the recorded
   statement's iss and sub as the replacement under that section.  Where
   the newest statement is the recorded statement itself, the server
   replaces nothing.  In that case, currency rests on that statement, as
   Section 5.6.1 describes.  If the re-pull does not complete or yields
   no replacement, the refresh fails as Section 5.6.1 provides.  A
   reviewed grant never continues under the policy for clients that the
   server has not reviewed.

   An authorization server advertises support through
   software_statement_pull_supported (Section 11).

5.3.  Presentation Processing

   On receiving a presentation, the authorization server performs all of
   the following steps, in order:

   1.  Validate the statement (Section 3.2), completing every check that
       does not require a client-controlled network retrieval before
       performing any such retrieval.

   2.  Verify the statement requirements of Section 3 and the client_id
       rule of Section 5.1.

   3.  Resolve the reviewed document (Section 5.5).  This is the first
       step that requires a client-controlled retrieval.

   4.  Verify the sender constraint against that document (Section 5.4).
       Then evaluate the request against that document's metadata
       (Section 5.5).

   5.  On success, create the establishment (Section 5.6).

   At the first failure, the authorization server rejects the
   presentation as Section 9 defines.

5.4.  Sender Constraint

   A runtime presentation MUST be sender-constrained by one of the
   following keys:

   *  A key that the statement attests.

   *  Under Section 5.4.1, the key that the presenter binds through
      dpop_jkt.

   The presenter proves possession of that key through the applicable
   client authentication method or a DPoP proof [RFC9449].  The proof
   MUST be bound to the current request and validated with the replay
   protections of that mechanism.

   Except as Section 5.4.1 provides, the proven key MUST appear in the
   reviewed document's jwks or at its jwks_uri (Section 5.5).  Where the
   reviewed document specifies a client authentication method, the
   presenter MUST use it.  Where the grant type requires client
   authentication, a DPoP proof does not satisfy that requirement
   ([RFC9449]).  The authorization server MUST reject a presentation in
   any of the following cases:

   *  The presentation has no such proof.

   *  The reviewed document does not carry the presentation's proven
      key.

   A document that carries a redirection URI that another application
   could claim is presented review-only, whatever its authentication
   method (Section 5.4.1).

   A statement whose reviewed document carries no key material can be
   consumed at registration, where its statement_uses claim permits
   ([REGISTRATION]).  Where the document declares
   token_endpoint_auth_method of none, such a statement can also be
   consumed at the pushed authorization request endpoint under
   Section 5.4.1.  Endorsement of a key the statement does not name, by
   a client attester or by an issuer the statement delegates to, is left
   to extensions (Section 12).

   The authorization server retrieves a key from the document's jwks_uri
   at presentation time.  If retrieval fails, the key is unverified, and
   the authorization server rejects the presentation with
   temporarily_unavailable.  A server MAY reuse a recently retrieved key
   set, within ordinary HTTP caching bounds and its own maximum reuse
   period.  The server MUST NOT let the client's cache directives alone
   determine how long a removed key continues to verify (Section 13.5).

5.4.1.  Public Clients

   Software distributed to end users cannot hold a key that its reviewed
   document carries.  This is because a key in a distributed binary is
   in every copy and identifies the software, not the installation.  The
   reviewed document of such software declares
   token_endpoint_auth_method of none and carries no key material.

   A presentation at the pushed authorization request endpoint, or a
   pulled statement at the authorization endpoint (Section 5.2), is
   bound instead by its reviewed redirection URIs where all of the
   following conditions are true:

   *  The client's reviewed document declares token_endpoint_auth_method
      of none.

   *  None of the redirection URIs in that document is one that another
      application could claim (see below).

   For such a presentation, all of the following requirements apply to
   the authorization server:

   *  It MUST require PKCE [RFC7636] with the S256 method.

   *  It MUST require the presenter to bind a key that the presenter
      holds, through the dpop_jkt parameter [RFC9449].  The
      authorization server records that key as the proven key of the
      establishment (Section 5.6).

   *  It MUST NOT require that key to appear in the reviewed document.

   The reviewed document, not the proven key, admits the statement here.
   For such a presentation, the authorization server delivers the
   authorization code only to a redirection URI that the issuer
   reviewed.  Therefore, a holder of a copied statement cannot receive
   the code (Section 13.3).  The proven key identifies the installation
   that the grant belongs to.  Code redemption and refresh demonstrate
   possession of that same key (Section 5.6, Section 5.6.1).

   A presentation is review-only where the reviewed document carries any
   redirection URI that another application on the same device could
   claim.  Such a URI is one of the following:

   *  A non-https URI, such as a private-use scheme or an http loopback
      redirection URI.

   *  An https URI whose host is a loopback address or localhost.

   Desktop software commonly redirects this way.  One such URI makes the
   whole document review-only, whatever authentication method it
   declares.  The application that claims the URI receives the code
   (Section 13.3).  Therefore, neither the reviewed redirection URIs nor
   a key shipped in every copy of the software can bind the presenter.

   A review-only presentation creates no establishment, admits nothing,
   and does not advance the watermark of Section 6.  This is because it
   changes nothing for the software's other instances.  The
   authorization server proceeds as it would if the same Client ID
   Metadata Document client presented no statement.

   The statement of a review-only presentation MUST NOT satisfy a policy
   that requires reviewed software.  The authorization server SHOULD NOT
   show that review to the user as an assurance about the presenter.
   Where the server's policy requires reviewed software, the server
   rejects a review-only client with unauthorized_client.  This is
   because no statement can make such a client reviewed.

   For a review-only presentation, the authorization server MAY record
   the statement's issuer for audit and inventory.  For such a
   presentation, it MAY refuse the request where the statement's status
   shows a withdrawal, subject to the bounds of Section 13.5.  The
   reason is that status constrains and never relaxes (Section 3.2).

   An authorization server MUST reject a presentation at the token
   endpoint under Section 5.1 from a client whose reviewed document
   carries no key material.  Such a presentation opens no redirect and
   has nothing to bind it.  A statement pulled for such a client at the
   token endpoint is instead review-only (Section 5.2).

5.5.  Reviewed Metadata

   The authorization server MUST do all of the following after it
   validates the statement and before it verifies the proof
   (Section 5.3):

   *  Obtain the Client ID Metadata Document at the statement's sub, by
      retrieval or from octets that it already digested for that
      identifier.

   *  Compare the digest of that document with cimd_digest.

   Where octets that the authorization server already holds do not
   match, it retrieves the document once more before it treats the
   mismatch as a change.  Without this second retrieval, a statement
   over an updated document would fail at a server that still holds
   older bytes.

   A match means that the served document is the reviewed one.  On a
   match, the members of the document are the client's metadata for the
   request.  The reason is that a statement vouches for a document, not
   for a set of claims (Section 3).

   A mismatch means that the document changed after review
   (Section 3.3).  The authorization server MUST NOT treat the changed
   document as reviewed.  It does one of the following:

   *  It rejects the presentation with invalid_client.

   *  By local policy, it proceeds without the statement.  In that case,
      it applies to the current document its policy for Client ID
      Metadata Document clients it has not reviewed.  It creates no
      establishment for the statement.

   The authorization server evaluates the request against that metadata.
   A redirect_uri MUST match a redirection URI in the document.  Any
   requested grant type, response type, or scope MUST fall within the
   document.  A document that omits scope sets no ceiling on scope
   beyond the server's own policy.  A grant type or response type that
   the authorization server supports but that the document does not
   authorize fails with unauthorized_client.  A scope outside the
   document fails with invalid_scope.

   Where the authorization server refuses a presentation because a bound
   of Section 6 is reached, it rejects the presentation with
   invalid_client.  In that case, the statement and its proof are sound,
   so the authorization server SHOULD say so in error_description.  The
   client can retry after earlier establishments are released.

5.6.  Grant Lifecycle

   A successful presentation creates an establishment, which is the
   state that a server persists for the grant.  An establishment
   consists of all of the following:

   *  The validated sub.

   *  The statement identity, its iss, jti, iat, and expiry, and its
      status claim where it carries one.

   *  The authorization server's own tenant that the grant was opened
      for, where the authorization server hosts more than one tenant.

   *  The reviewed metadata and the digest that it matched
      (Section 5.5).

   *  The issuer trust decision.

   *  The sender-constraint mechanism and the proven key.

   An authorization server MAY reuse an establishment across
   presentations that resolve to the same sub, statement, and proven
   key, rather than create one per request.  The bounds of Section 6
   count distinct establishments, not presentations.

   The establishment persists while the grant depends on it.  The
   authorization server MUST bind the resulting request_uri,
   authorization code, refresh token, and other grant continuation state
   to the establishment, as applicable.  The authorization server MAY
   discard the establishment once no such state references it.

   All of the following apply to a token request that redeems an
   authorization code opened by a presentation:

   *  The request MUST have a client_id exactly equal to the
      establishment's sub.

   *  The request MUST demonstrate possession of the same proven key
      under the same sender-constraint mechanism.

   *  The request MUST NOT carry the software_statement parameter.

   Where a redemption carries a statement, the authorization server
   rejects it with invalid_request.  Where a redemption has a wrong
   client identifier or a failed key binding, the authorization server
   rejects it with invalid_grant.  The prohibition on the
   software_statement parameter covers the redemption of a code bound to
   an establishment.  A registered client that redeems its own code may
   deliver a replacement statement under [REGISTRATION].  That is a
   delivery, not a presentation.

   A statement MUST be unexpired when it is presented.  Expiry after
   presentation does not by itself invalidate an establishment that is
   already bound.  The authorization server controls continued use
   through its grant and refresh-token policy.  It can require a current
   replacement statement as Section 5.6.1 defines.

5.6.1.  Refresh

   On refresh-token use, the authorization server MUST verify possession
   of the establishment's proven key under the same sender-constraint
   mechanism.  It MAY, by local policy, also require a current unexpired
   statement.  It SHOULD require a current unexpired statement once the
   establishment's recorded statement is expired (Section 13.6).  The
   recorded statement satisfies that requirement while it is unexpired
   and no refusal record covers it.  A replacement is necessary only
   once the recorded statement no longer satisfies that requirement.

   Where the authorization server holds a refusal record for the
   establishment's recorded statement, it MUST reject a refresh without
   a presented or pulled replacement that satisfies this section,
   whatever its policy on currency otherwise.  Thus, a withdrawal ends
   grant continuation at once, rather than waiting on local policy.  An
   authorization server that resolves status for the recorded
   statement's issuer SHOULD check that statement at each refresh
   against a Status List Token it holds within that token's validity.
   This check exists so that a withdrawal that the server has resolved
   reaches open grants, not only new ones.

   When a replacement is necessary, the client presents it in the
   software_statement parameter of the refresh request.  Alternatively,
   for an establishment created from a pulled statement, the server
   pulls one (Section 5.2).  A statement with the recorded statement's
   iss and jti is not a replacement.  Where such a statement is offered
   again, the authorization server checks it again as above.  All of the
   following apply to the replacement:

   *  The replacement MUST validate under Section 3.2, including its
      audience where it carries one.

   *  The replacement MUST have the recorded statement's iss and sub.

   *  The replacement MUST have an iat later than the recorded
      statement's iat.

   *  The replacement MUST name, by its cimd_digest, the document
      currently served at its sub, which the server verifies by
      retrieval or by revalidating octets it holds.

   *  The replacement MUST authorize the establishment's proven key
      (Section 5.4) or, for an establishment created under
      Section 5.4.1, name a document that still satisfies that section.

   The refreshed access MUST fall within the metadata of the document
   that the replacement names.

   On success, the authorization server replaces the establishment's
   statement identity, iat, expiry, reviewed metadata, and trust
   decision in a single atomic update.  Concurrent replacements resolve
   to the most recently issued statement.  Where a refresh fails these
   requirements, or omits a necessary replacement, the authorization
   server rejects it with statement_required.  Such a refresh leaves the
   establishment unchanged.  Refresh never rotates the establishment's
   key.  A client that needs a new key performs a new presentation.

6.  Repeated Consumption of One Statement

   A statement attests client software, identified by sub, and not the
   runtime instances of that software.  This specification defines no
   instance identifier.  Therefore, one unexpired statement is
   consumable more than once.  It is consumable at each trusting
   authorization server in its audience.  Where an authorization server
   registers clients ([REGISTRATION]) and its policy permits, the
   statement is also consumable in more than one registration at that
   server.

   An authorization server that hosts multiple tenants resolves a
   request's tenant by its own means, such as a per-tenant issuer
   identifier or endpoint.  This specification defines no tenant
   parameter.  A Client ID Metadata Document URL is the same client_id
   in every tenant.  The authorization server keeps bounds, inventories,
   and the watermark below within what it treats as one deployment (at a
   multi-tenant server, one tenant).  This is so that an issuer's
   statements for different tenants do not supersede one another.

   A trusting authorization server MUST retain, per iss and sub, the iat
   of the most recent statement it has accepted.  It MUST reject a
   statement whose iat is earlier than that iat, whether the statement
   arrives as a replacement, a new registration, or a new presentation.
   This floor spans every registration and establishment.  Therefore, a
   client that holds a superseded, broader statement cannot defer a
   narrowing by opening a fresh registration or establishment with it.
   The authorization server retains the watermark at least as long as
   the maximum statement lifetime that it honors for that issuer.

   For the same reason, a replacement retires its predecessor for every
   instance of the software at that server.  It does so at its first
   presentation that establishes the client.  Instances SHOULD therefore
   obtain the current statement from a source they share, rather than
   each holding a copy fixed when it was built or installed.  Examples
   of such a source are an endpoint that the publisher operates and a
   store that their deployment shares.

   A trusting authorization server SHOULD use the statement's sub and
   iss to inventory all of the following:

   *  The establishments derived from that issuer's statements about
      that software.

   *  Any registrations ([REGISTRATION]) derived from that issuer's
      statements about that software.

   The trusting authorization server SHOULD bound the number of these
   establishments and registrations.

   An establishment counts toward a bound only once the authorization
   server issues an access token from it.  In a redirect flow, that is
   once its authorization code is redeemed.  State that a pushed
   authorization request creates does not count, even where its code was
   issued but never redeemed.  The reason is that anyone who holds a
   copy of a public client's statement can create such state and approve
   it with their own account.  The authorization server counts a bound
   across replacements.  A bound keyed on jti would reset at every
   renewal.

   Where the reviewed document carries jwks or jwks_uri, a runtime
   presentation proves a key from it (Section 5.4).  Software
   distributed to end users presents at the pushed authorization request
   endpoint under Section 5.4.1.  That presentation creates an
   establishment per grant, not a registration per installation.
   Software whose instances hold their own keys can neither prove nor
   register those keys (Section 5.4, [REGISTRATION]).  Such software
   depends on the endorsement extension of Section 12.

7.  Deployment Model: Centrally Curated Software

   This section is non-normative.

   A provider's marketplace decides which software may exist as a client
   on its platform.  The provider configures the marketplace's issuer
   for the identifier namespaces that the marketplace speaks for
   (Section 4).  A separate decision is whether that software may
   operate in a particular customer's tenant.  The customer's identity
   provider usually makes this decision (Section 8).  This specification
   carries that decision only where the customer operates its own
   issuer.

   A marketplace application is reviewed once.  Its listing is a
   statement whose renewal keeps the application admissible.  One
   listing serves every tenant, whether the customer deploys the
   software or the vendor hosts it.  Thus, a vendor onboards customers
   without per-customer provisioning.

   An enterprise that reviews software itself can also operate an
   issuer.  With its own issuer, the enterprise's review travels as an
   auditable artifact to the providers that its statements name in aud.
   The review then does not remain a policy decision inside the
   enterprise's identity provider.

   The two lifecycles need no synchronization.  Onboarding a provider is
   one trust configuration, which covers the issuer, its identifier
   scope, and its lifetime policy.  This configuration has no per-
   application allowlist.  A request rests on one statement.  In a
   tenant where a provider requires the customer's tenant-scoped
   decision, the statement that carries that decision is presented.  In
   other tenants, the listing is presented.

   When the customer's issuer stops renewing, the application lapses in
   that customer's tenant at every provider that requires the customer's
   decision.  The listing and other customers stay unaffected.  When the
   marketplace stops renewing, the listing expires in every tenant that
   relies on it.  Registrations that a provider bounds by the listing
   also expire ([REGISTRATION]).

   Either lapse stops new runtime presentations of the lapsed statements
   after exp.  It also ends refresh-based continuation where the
   provider requires a current statement (Section 5.6.1).  Already-
   issued access tokens remain governed by their own lifetime.
   Providers retain local control over grants and emergency
   deprovisioning.

8.  Relationship to Identity Assertions

   A statement records that a named party reviewed software and vouched
   for its metadata.  It does not record that a particular customer
   currently permits that software to act in its tenant.  The review and
   the permission change on different clocks.

   Where a customer's identity provider mediates a grant, the identity
   provider already answers the second question per grant.  For example,
   an identity provider mediates a grant when a cross-domain identity
   assertion carries the customer's users to a provider.  The identity
   provider answers that question by issuing assertions only for clients
   that the customer permits.  As a result, withdrawal takes effect on
   the next grant.  No artifact outlives the decision.  A deployment
   that wants that property should rely on the identity provider rather
   than reproduce it with statements.

   This specification addresses the durable question.  A statement
   answers that question where the reviewer is not in the request path,
   for example in any of the following cases:

   *  A publisher program or ecosystem directory vouching to servers
      that it will never see.

   *  A provider admitting software that it never registered.

   *  A customer that wants an auditable, portable record of what its
      review covered, rather than an inference from the issuance of an
      assertion.

9.  Error Responses

   [REGISTRATION] defines how an authorization server rejects a
   statement consumed at registration.  A rejected presentation or
   replacement uses the error responses of [RFC6749] for the endpoint at
   which it was presented.  At the token endpoint:

   invalid_client:  the statement or its proof fails to establish the
      client.  This includes a failed sender constraint (Section 5.4)
      and a failed statement requirement of Section 3 other than expiry.
      Under [REGISTRATION], this code also covers a request under an
      expired registration that carries no replacement.

   statement_required:  a current statement is required and none was
      supplied, or the one supplied is expired or refused.  The client
      recovers by obtaining a newer statement.  Re-sending the same
      statement cannot succeed.  Wherever this specification requires a
      current statement on a refresh-token request, this code replaces
      invalid_grant.  This is so that a client does not read the
      rejection as an invalid refresh token ([RFC9700]).

   temporarily_unavailable:  a retrieval that this specification
      requires, of the reviewed document or of a key set that it names,
      did not complete.  The client retries.  The statement is not in
      question.

   unauthorized_client:  the reviewed document does not authorize the
      requested grant type or response type, although the authorization
      server supports it.

   invalid_scope:  a requested scope falls outside the reviewed
      document.

   invalid_request:  any other rejection, including a redemption or
      issuance request that carries the software_statement parameter,
      and a request that repeats the parameter (Section 5.1,
      Section 5.6).

   The codes apply as follows:

   +===============+=========================+=========================+
   |Condition      | Pushed authorization    | Token, including        |
   |               | request                 | refresh                 |
   +===============+=========================+=========================+
   |Malformed, or  | invalid_client          | invalid_client          |
   |failing        |                         |                         |
   |signature or   |                         |                         |
   |claim          |                         |                         |
   |validation     |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Valid but not  | invalid_client          | invalid_client          |
   |acceptable     |                         |                         |
   |here: issuer   |                         |                         |
   |not            |                         |                         |
   |configured,    |                         |                         |
   |aud excludes   |                         |                         |
   |this server,   |                         |                         |
   |sub outside    |                         |                         |
   |the issuer's   |                         |                         |
   |scope,         |                         |                         |
   |aud_tenant not |                         |                         |
   |this request's |                         |                         |
   |tenant or      |                         |                         |
   |absent where   |                         |                         |
   |required,      |                         |                         |
   |statement_uses |                         |                         |
   |excludes this  |                         |                         |
   |use            |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Expired, or    | statement_required      | statement_required      |
   |refused by a   |                         |                         |
   |refusal        |                         |                         |
   |record,        |                         |                         |
   |including a    |                         |                         |
   |status         |                         |                         |
   |resolved as    |                         |                         |
   |INVALID, or as |                         |                         |
   |SUSPENDED      |                         |                         |
   |where policy   |                         |                         |
   |refuses it, or |                         |                         |
   |superseded     |                         |                         |
   |under the iat  |                         |                         |
   |floor of       |                         |                         |
   |Section 6      |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Required       | statement_required      | statement_required      |
   |statement      |                         |                         |
   |absent         |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Digest does    | see Section 5.5         | see Section 5.5         |
   |not match the  |                         |                         |
   |retrieved      |                         |                         |
   |document       |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Document       | unauthorized_client or  | unauthorized_client or  |
   |carries        | invalid_scope           | invalid_scope           |
   |metadata this  |                         |                         |
   |server's       |                         |                         |
   |policy refuses |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Retrieval did  | temporarily_unavailable | temporarily_unavailable |
   |not complete   |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
   |Review-only    | unauthorized_client     | unauthorized_client     |
   |client where   |                         |                         |
   |reviewed       |                         |                         |
   |software is    |                         |                         |
   |required       |                         |                         |
   |(Section       |                         |                         |
   |5.4.1)         |                         |                         |
   +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+

                                  Table 1

   An authorization server SHOULD use HTTP status code 503 with
   temporarily_unavailable and 400 with the other codes.  This lets a
   client distinguish a condition that is worth retrying from one that
   needs a new statement.

   At the pushed authorization request endpoint, the authorization
   server returns these codes in the error response of [RFC9126].  On
   refresh-token use, Section 5.6.1 takes precedence.  On refresh-token
   use, the authorization server reports registration validity as
   [REGISTRATION] defines.  Neither rejection indicates refresh-token
   replay ([RFC9700]).

   A client never presents a statement at the authorization endpoint
   (Section 5.1.1), though the authorization server may pull one there
   (Section 5.2).  At the authorization endpoint, the authorization
   server rejects a review-only client with unauthorized_client where
   reviewed software is required (Section 5.4.1).  Where reviewed
   software is required, the authorization server also rejects with
   temporarily_unavailable a client whose pulled statements it could not
   retrieve (Section 5.2).

   Otherwise, at the authorization endpoint, where this server requires
   a statement for a client that has none established, or where the
   client's statement-governed registration has expired without a
   replacement ([REGISTRATION]), the authorization server MUST return
   statement_required in the authorization error response [RFC6749].
   The code tells the client to obtain a statement and to return through
   the pushed authorization request endpoint.  Without this code, a
   client cannot distinguish a missing review from a policy that it will
   never satisfy.

   The authorization server redirects with the error only after it does
   all of the following:

   *  It resolves the client's Client ID Metadata Document or, for an
      expired registration, consults the retained registration
      ([REGISTRATION]).

   *  It validates the request's redirect_uri against that document or
      registration.

   Where the authorization server cannot resolve either, and so cannot
   validate the redirection URI, it MUST NOT redirect.  In that case, it
   reports the error to the resource owner instead.

   Where the proof mechanism defines a recoverable error of its own,
   that error takes precedence over the generic errors above.  An
   example is a DPoP nonce challenge [RFC9449].

   These codes do not tell a client whether to seek a corrected
   statement or a different issuer.  The authorization server MAY return
   non-sensitive diagnostics in error_description to a client it has
   authenticated.  It MUST NOT reveal issuer-trust, subject-namespace,
   or attester-policy details to an unauthenticated requester.  Where a
   statement is refused by a refusal record rather than merely expired,
   and the client is authenticated, the authorization server SHOULD
   indicate that a statement issued more recently is required.  The
   reason is that re-sending the same statement can never succeed.

10.  Examples

   Both examples are non-normative.

10.1.  Presenting at the Token Endpoint

   The following example shows a client that presents an already-issued
   statement at the token endpoint of a server that holds no record for
   it.  The reviewed document, which the statement's digest covers,
   names a jwks_uri and names private_key_jwt as its authentication
   method.  The client therefore authenticates with a key that the
   document carries.  The client_id is the Client ID Metadata Document
   URL that the statement's sub names.  Line breaks are for display
   purposes only.

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: as.example
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

   grant_type=client_credentials
   &scope=tools.read
   &client_id=https%3A%2F%2Fclient.example%2Fapp
   &client_assertion_type=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3A
   client-assertion-type%3Ajwt-bearer
   &client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjIwMjYtMDgifQ...
   &software_statement=eyJ0eXAiOiJzb2Z0d2FyZS1zdGF0ZW1l...

   The authorization server does all of the following:

   *  It validates the statement.

   *  It retrieves the document that the statement's digest names.

   *  It verifies the client assertion against a key from the jwks_uri
      of that document.

   *  It checks that the requested scope falls within the scope of the
      document.

   The authorization server keeps no registration.  The effective
   client_id is the statement's sub.

10.2.  Publishing a Statement for Servers to Pull

   The following example shows a Client ID Metadata Document that names
   the location where the client publishes its statements:

   {
     "client_id": "https://client.example/app",
     "redirect_uris": ["https://client.example/cb"],
     "token_endpoint_auth_method": "private_key_jwt",
     "jwks_uri": "https://client.example/jwks.json",
     "software_statements_uri":
       "https://client.example/statements.json"
   }

   A request to that URL returns the statements.  The following example
   shows a response that contains one statement:

   {
     "software_statements": [
       "eyJ0eXAiOiJzb2Z0d2FyZS1zdGF0ZW1lbnQrand0Iiwi..."
     ]
   }

   When an authorization server receives an ordinary authorization
   request with this client_id, it does all of the following
   (Section 5.2):

   *  It resolves the document.

   *  It retrieves the statements.

   *  It keeps the statement that comes from a trusted issuer and whose
      cimd_digest matches the document that it retrieved.

   *  It completes the binding when the client authenticates with
      private_key_jwt at code redemption.

11.  Authorization Server Metadata

   This specification defines the following authorization server
   metadata [RFC8414] values:

   software_statement_jwks_uri:  REQUIRED for an authorization server
      that issues software statements.  The value is the URL of a JWK
      Set that contains only the keys with which the authorization
      server signs software statements.  The URL MUST use the https
      scheme, as [RFC8414] requires of jwks_uri.  A trusting
      authorization server MUST validate the server's certificate when
      it retrieves the JWK Set from that URL.  Without these
      protections, a substituted key set would let a network attacker
      sign statements.  The keys in this JWK Set MUST NOT appear in the
      JWK Set at the server's jwks_uri.  The server MUST NOT sign
      anything other than software statements with these keys.  A
      trusting authorization server verifies statements only against
      this set (Section 4).  As a result, a key that signs another
      artifact, such as a Status List Token, cannot be treated as a
      statement signing key.  This member describes the issuing role.

   software_statement_presentation_supported:  OPTIONAL.  The value is a
      JSON array that names the endpoints at which the authorization
      server accepts a software statement presented at runtime
      (Section 5.1).  The defined values are token and
      pushed_authorization_request.  A client ignores a value that it
      does not recognize.  An omitted member or an empty array means
      that the authorization server does not offer runtime presentation.
      An authorization server that advertises only token offers runtime
      presentation to clients that need no redirect, without the front-
      channel path.  This member describes the role of a trusting
      authorization server.  It does not imply that the authorization
      server accepts any particular statement issuer or subject
      namespace.  It also does not imply support for statement-governed
      registrations ([REGISTRATION]).  An authorization server that
      advertises presentation at the pushed authorization request
      endpoint MUST publish pushed_authorization_request_endpoint.  The
      reason is that Section 5.1.1 makes presentation at that endpoint
      the only front-channel path.  A client also examines the ordinary
      client-authentication and DPoP metadata for the proof that it
      intends to use.  Admitting a public client's presentation at the
      pushed authorization request endpoint (Section 5.4.1) is local
      policy.  A refusal uses Section 9.

   software_statement_presentation_grant_types_supported:  OPTIONAL.
      The value is a JSON array of grant type identifiers on which the
      authorization server accepts a runtime presentation.  These grant
      types are in addition to those that Section 5.1 names.  If the
      member is omitted, the authorization server accepts a runtime
      presentation only on those grant types.

   software_statement_pull_supported:  OPTIONAL.  The Boolean value
      indicates whether the authorization server retrieves statements
      from a client's software_statements_uri when it establishes a
      client that presented none (Section 5.2).  If the member is
      omitted, the default value is false.  A client whose document
      names a location needs nothing further from the server.  The
      member tells a client whether the client also needs to present a
      statement.

12.  Extension Points

   This specification leaves the following extensions to separate
   specifications:

   *  Endorsed keys, by which a client attestation [ABCA] or an
      assertion vouches for a key that the reviewed document does not
      carry.  An instance_issuers delegation [CLIENT-INSTANCE] in the
      reviewed document names the issuer of such an assertion.  This
      extension would admit software whose instances hold their own
      keys.

   *  Statement conveyance within a client attestation, rather than as a
      request parameter.

   *  Partial review, by which an issuer vouches for particular members
      rather than a whole document (Section 3).

13.  Security Considerations

13.1.  Statement Theft and Replay

   A runtime presentation resists statement theft because the presenter
   proves a key that the reviewed document carries (Section 5.4).  A
   thief that holds only the statement lacks that key.  Admitting only
   that key also prevents downgrade.  Every server in the audience
   either binds the presenter to that key or refuses the presentation.
   An extension that admits endorsed keys (Section 12) has to address
   downgrade on its own terms.

   Attesting a jwks_uri attests the location, not its contents.  A
   compromised key host can add keys that satisfy the proof without a
   digest change.  Where that matters, an issuer attests jwks inline and
   accepts that rotation changes the digest.  A server that reuses a
   cached key set (Section 5.4) also accepts that a just-removed key can
   briefly continue to verify.

   The sender constraint, the grant bindings of Section 5.6, and the
   registration-validity model of [REGISTRATION] add to the validation
   of Section 3.2.  Nothing relaxes it.

13.2.  Servers That Do Not Implement This Specification

   A statement carries no client metadata.  Thus an [RFC7591] server
   that verified a statement without implementing this specification
   would take every metadata value from the registration request.  That
   server would attach the issuer's approval to the redirection URIs and
   keys of an attacker.  [REGISTRATION] exists to prevent this
   substitution.

   Keeping statement signing keys at software_statement_jwks_uri and out
   of jwks_uri (Section 11) prevents this substitution.  A server that
   discovers an issuer's keys through [RFC8414] finds none that verify a
   statement.  A server that is configured with the statement key set is
   configured for this specification.

13.3.  Copied Statements and Public Clients

   A public client's presentation (Section 5.4.1) admits a statement
   without proof of a key that the reviewed document carries.  As a
   result, a party that holds a copied statement can open a pushed
   authorization request in the name of the reviewed software.  That
   party cannot complete the grant, because the authorization server
   delivers the authorization code only to a redirection URI that the
   issuer reviewed.  That holds only for redirection URIs that no other
   application on the device can claim.  Thus a document that carries a
   private-use scheme or loopback redirection URI is presented review-
   only (Section 5.4.1).

   The residual exposure is a consent prompt that carries the name and
   branding of the reviewed software.  A party that cannot receive what
   the user approves raises that prompt.  An authorization server SHOULD
   rate-limit presentations per statement identity and per subject
   (Section 13.5).  An issuer bounds the exposure through audience,
   lifetime, and status (Section 3).

   This binding is weaker than the binding of a confidential client.
   However, a key shipped in every copy of software distributed to end
   users would bind no installation (Section 5.4.1).  An endorsement
   extension (Section 12) would strengthen this binding.  It would give
   the instance a key that a third party vouches for.

13.4.  Tenant Confusion at a Multi-Tenant Consumer

   Where a trusting authorization server serves several tenants and
   evaluates anything tenant-specific, the following two tenants MUST be
   the same:

   *  The tenant against which the server decides.

   *  The tenant that scopes what the server issues.

   Neither of these tenants may be selected by a value that the client
   chooses.  A tenant asserted in a signed assertion that the server has
   validated, such as an identity assertion authorization grant [IDJAG],
   is the server's own resolution.

   Consider a server that derives the tenant one way to check a decision
   and another way to scope a token.  That server lets a client reach
   the resources of one tenant on the decision of another tenant.  The
   aud_tenant claim makes that failure detectable.  A statement that
   names a tenant cannot be used in another tenant.

   Tenant resolution remains the server's responsibility.  There is no
   tenant parameter, and the client identifier URL is the same across
   tenants (Section 6).  Therefore, neither a client nor an issuer can
   verify that a server honored this rule.

   The aud_tenant claim confines a decision to a tenant at the trusting
   authorization server.  The claim does not identify which of the
   client's own customers is asking.  Software that acts for many
   customers under one client identifier and key presents the same
   statement and key for each customer.  Thus a statement that names a
   tenant admits the software there on behalf of every customer that the
   software serves.  Any of those customers can direct the software at
   the tenant of another customer.

   A statement attests software and cannot prevent this.  A deployment
   that needs that binding records it at the trusting authorization
   server or carries the customer as instance identity
   ([CLIENT-INSTANCE]).

13.5.  External Retrieval and Resource Exhaustion

   Runtime presentation can cause the authorization server to retrieve
   any of the following:

   *  The Client ID Metadata Document.

   *  A jwks_uri that the document names.

   *  The statements that the document's software_statements_uri names.

   Every such retrieval inherits the server-side request forgery
   protections of [CIMD].  A trusted signature does not make a URL safe.
   The authorization server MUST apply its URL, redirect, address-range,
   transport, and content-type policy independently to every referenced
   location.

   Presentation reaches these retrievals before any client is registered
   or any user interacts.  Thus an unauthenticated requester that holds
   one acceptable statement can cause this work.  An authorization
   server SHOULD therefore bound this work in all of the following ways:

   *  Rate-limit presentations per statement identity, per subject, and
      per source, before spending retrieval or storage on a new
      presentation.

   *  Rate-limit pulls (Section 5.2) per client identifier and per
      source, before spending retrieval or storage on a new
      presentation.

   *  Bound the establishments that it will create from one statement
      (Section 6), before spending retrieval or storage on a new
      presentation.

   *  Bound JWT size and parsing work, concurrent retrievals, response
      size, and response time.

   *  Cache successful retrieval results within the document's caching
      directives.  After a failure, delay the next retrieval rather than
      cache the failure.  The reason is that [CIMD] forbids caching
      error responses.

   A retrieval failure leaves the relevant metadata or proof unverified.
   After such a failure, the authorization server MUST reject the
   request and MUST NOT revert to a weaker proof.

13.6.  Enforcement Bounds

   An authorization server enforces expiry at every presentation, so a
   lapsed statement prevents new runtime admission.  [REGISTRATION]
   defines its effect on registrations.  A lapsed statement does not
   retroactively invalidate an establishment, revoke an access token, or
   terminate an outstanding grant.  Issuer non-renewal ends runtime-
   established grants only where the server requires a current statement
   on refresh.  Otherwise, these grants last for the life of their
   refresh tokens, whatever the statement lifetime, unless the server
   has resolved a withdrawal (Section 5.6.1).

   A narrowed re-review takes effect when the client publishes the
   narrower document and obtains a statement over it.  A server detects
   a metadata change after issuance through cimd_digest.  That claim
   covers exact bytes.  However, it requires the server to hold the
   current bytes, retrieved or retained.  The bounded statement lifetime
   limits what either signal can miss for new admissions.

   The status claim of Section 3, which a server resolves through
   [STATUSLIST], lets an issuer end a decision before its expiry.  Where
   no status resolves, exp remains the floor (Section 3.2).  [SIGNALS]
   defines an optional, earlier notification of status change.  Neither
   this specification nor the status mechanism depends on that
   notification.

   Short statement lifetimes tighten the issuer's control and increase
   issuance and delivery traffic.  A fleet of statements issued together
   expires together.  Issuers SHOULD therefore stagger expiries or renew
   ahead of the boundary, to avoid synchronized lapses.

13.7.  Status Resolution

   Resolving status adds a dependency on the issuer and a retrieval that
   the client does not control.  Because [STATUSLIST] aggregates many
   statements into one list, a retrieval tells the issuer only that some
   trusting authorization server is resolving status.  A server SHOULD
   retrieve the list on the list's own schedule rather than once per
   request.  This way, the server's request timing does not disclose the
   client population that it serves.  Per-request resolution would also
   make every request that the statement governs depend on issuer
   availability.

   The issuer signs a status list.  A server MUST obtain the list's
   verification keys from the jwks_uri of the issuer's authorization
   server metadata [RFC8414], reached from the configured iss, never
   from the list itself.  That key set is separate from the issuer's
   statement key set (Section 11), so a key that signs the list cannot
   sign statements.

13.8.  Document Resolution

   Every presentation resolves the Client ID Metadata Document that its
   statement names (Section 5.5).  That resolution inherits the
   considerations of [CIMD], including server-side request forgery and
   availability.  A server MAY cache resolution results within the
   document's caching directives.  The digest tells the server whether
   the bytes that it holds, retrieved or retained, are the reviewed ones
   (Section 3.1, [REGISTRATION]).

13.9.  Observable State

   A statement_required refusal at the authorization endpoint
   (Section 9) travels through the user agent.  As a result, it tells
   anyone who can see the redirection that this client has no
   established standing at this server.  The
   software_statement_presentation_supported metadata discloses only
   that the authorization server offers presentation.  The disclosure is
   accepted because a client that cannot learn why the authorization
   server refused it cannot act.  The disclosure carries no issuer-
   trust, subject-scope, or attester-policy detail.  Section 9 keeps
   that detail from unauthenticated requesters.

13.10.  Statement Handling

   Servers SHOULD avoid logging software statements.  Statements remain
   sensitive in transit and at rest.  Possession of a statement alone
   does not enable presentation.  However, a statement names reviewed
   software.  Where a statement carries an audience, it also names the
   intended relationships of that software.

14.  Privacy Considerations

   A presentation or delivery reveals the client's issuer relationship
   to the authorization server.  Where the statement carries an aud
   claim, the presentation or delivery also reveals the other
   authorization servers that the client intends to use.  A statement
   that omits that claim discloses nothing beyond the review
   ([ISSUANCE]).  Pushed authorization requests (Section 5.1.1) keep
   statements out of browser history, referrers, and front-channel logs.

   A central issuer also learns from renewals which of its statements
   are in active use.  Therefore, issuance and renewal logs deserve the
   same care as the statements.

   Retrieving the document tells its host that the server is resolving
   the client.  Pulling statements (Section 5.2) tells the host of
   software_statements_uri the same thing.  That host is an additional
   party only where the URL is on another origin.

   Anyone can read published statements.  Thus their aud and aud_tenant
   claims disclose which servers and tenants a review names.  A client
   presents a statement whose audience is sensitive, rather than
   publishing it.

15.  IANA Considerations

15.1.  OAuth Parameters Registry

   This specification requests registration of the software_statement
   parameter in the IANA "OAuth Parameters" registry established by
   [RFC6749].  The parameter is for runtime presentation and statement
   delivery of the artifact that [RFC7591] defines:

   Parameter Name:  software_statement

   Parameter Usage Location:  authorization request, token request

   Note:  In an authorization request the parameter is conveyed only
      through the pushed authorization request endpoint [RFC9126], never
      in a front-channel URL (Section 5.1.1).

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 5.1

   The "OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata" registry established
   by [RFC7591] already contains a software_statement member.  This
   registration does not affect that member.  The name is reused because
   the artifact is the same [RFC7591] software statement, carried to the
   same server for the same purpose.  A distinct name would make a
   client carry one artifact under two names.  With a distinct name, a
   server also would not recognize at the token endpoint what it accepts
   at the registration endpoint.

15.2.  Media Type Registration

   This specification requests registration of the application/software-
   statement+jwt media type in the IANA "Media Types" registry
   [RFC6838].

   Type name:  application

   Subtype name:  software-statement+jwt

   Required parameters:  n/a

   Optional parameters:  n/a

   Encoding considerations:  8bit.  A software statement is a JWT.  JWT
      values are encoded as a series of base64url-encoded values
      separated by period ('.') characters, as registered for
      application/jwt in Section 10.3.1 of [RFC7519].

   Security considerations:  See Section 13 of this specification and
      Section 11 of [RFC7519].

   Interoperability considerations:  n/a

   Published specification:  This specification

   Applications that use this media type:  Authorization servers and
      clients that issue, request, or accept OAuth 2.0 software
      statements

   Fragment identifier considerations:  n/a

   Additional information:  File extension(s): n/a.  Macintosh file type
      code(s): n/a.

   Person & email address to contact for further information:  Karl
      McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   Intended usage:  COMMON

   Restrictions on usage:  none

   Author:  Karl McGuinness, public@karlmcguinness.com

   Change controller:  IETF

15.3.  Claims Defined Elsewhere

   This specification uses one claim that it does not define:
   aud_tenant.  [IDJAG] defines and registers that claim.

15.4.  JSON Web Token Claims Registry

   This specification requests registration of the following values in
   the IANA "JSON Web Token Claims" registry established by [RFC7519]:

   Claim Name:  cimd_digest

   Claim Description:  Unpadded base64url-encoded SHA-256 digest of the
      retrieved octets of the Client ID Metadata Document evaluated
      during software statement issuance

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 3

   Claim Name:  statement_uses

   Claim Description:  Permitted uses of a software statement

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 3

15.5.  OAuth Extensions Error Registry

   This specification requests registration of the following error codes
   in the IANA "OAuth Extensions Error Registry" established by
   [RFC6749]:

   Error Name:  statement_required

   Error Usage Location:  authorization error response, token error
      response, pushed authorization request error response

   Related Protocol Extension:  CIMD Software Statement

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 9

   Error Name:  temporarily_unavailable

   Existing Registration:  [RFC6749]

   Error Usage Location:  token error response and pushed authorization
      request error response, in addition to the locations already
      registered

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  [RFC6749], this specification (Section 9)

15.6.  OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata Registry

   This specification requests registration of the following client
   metadata member, which a client publishes in its Client ID Metadata
   Document:

   Client Metadata Name:  software_statements_uri

   Client Metadata Description:  URL, in a Client ID Metadata Document,
      at which the client publishes software statements about itself for
      an authorization server to retrieve.  It is not meaningful in a
      registration request.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 5.2

15.7.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry

   This specification requests registration of the following values in
   the IANA "OAuth Authorization Server Metadata" registry established
   by [RFC8414].

   Metadata Name:  software_statement_presentation_supported

   Metadata Description:  JSON array of endpoint names at which the
      authorization server accepts a software statement presented at
      runtime.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 11

   Metadata Name:  software_statement_presentation_grant_types_supported

   Metadata Description:  JSON array of grant type identifiers on which
      the authorization server accepts a runtime presentation, beyond
      those the specification names.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 11

   Metadata Name:  software_statement_jwks_uri

   Metadata Description:  URL of the JWK Set containing only the keys
      with which the authorization server signs software statements.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 11

   Metadata Name:  software_statement_pull_supported

   Metadata Description:  Boolean value indicating whether the
      authorization server retrieves software statements from a client's
      software_statements_uri.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This specification, Section 11

16.  References

16.1.  Normative References

   [CIMD]     "OAuth Client ID Metadata Document", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-client-
              id-metadata-document>.

   [IDJAG]    "Identity Assertion Authorization Grant", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-
              identity-assertion-authz-grant>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC6234]  Eastlake 3rd, D. and T. Hansen, "US Secure Hash Algorithms
              (SHA and SHA-based HMAC and HKDF)", RFC 6234,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6234, May 2011,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6234>.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>.

   [RFC6838]  Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen, "Media Type
              Specifications and Registration Procedures", BCP 13,
              RFC 6838, DOI 10.17487/RFC6838, January 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6838>.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web
              Signature (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7515>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7521]  Campbell, B., Mortimore, C., Jones, M., and Y. Goland,
              "Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication
              and Authorization Grants", RFC 7521, DOI 10.17487/RFC7521,
              May 2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>.

   [RFC7591]  Richer, J., Ed., Jones, M., Bradley, J., Machulak, M., and
              P. Hunt, "OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol",
              RFC 7591, DOI 10.17487/RFC7591, July 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7591>.

   [RFC7636]  Sakimura, N., Ed., Bradley, J., and N. Agarwal, "Proof Key
              for Code Exchange by OAuth Public Clients", RFC 7636,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7636, September 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7636>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8725]  Sheffer, Y., Hardt, D., and M. Jones, "JSON Web Token Best
              Current Practices", BCP 225, RFC 8725,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8725, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8725>.

   [RFC9110]  Fielding, R., Ed., Nottingham, M., Ed., and J. Reschke,
              Ed., "HTTP Semantics", STD 97, RFC 9110,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9110, June 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110>.

   [RFC9126]  Lodderstedt, T., Campbell, B., Sakimura, N., Tonge, D.,
              and F. Skokan, "OAuth 2.0 Pushed Authorization Requests",
              RFC 9126, DOI 10.17487/RFC9126, September 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9126>.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, DOI 10.17487/RFC9449,
              September 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9449>.

   [RFC9700]  Lodderstedt, T., Bradley, J., Labunets, A., and D. Fett,
              "Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security", BCP 240,
              RFC 9700, DOI 10.17487/RFC9700, January 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9700>.

   [STATUSLIST]
              "Token Status List", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-status-
              list>.

16.2.  Informative References

   [ABCA]     "OAuth 2.0 Attestation-Based Client Authentication", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-
              attestation-based-client-auth>.

   [AU-CDR]   "Consumer Data Standards (Australia)", n.d.,
              <https://consumerdatastandardsaustralia.github.io/
              standards/>.

   [CLIENT-INSTANCE]
              "OAuth 2.0 Client Instance Assertion", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              client-instance-assertion>.

   [ISSUANCE] "CIMD Software Statement Issuance", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              cimd-sw-stmt-issuance>.

   [OPENID-FED]
              "OpenID Federation 1.0", n.d.,
              <https://openid.net/specs/openid-federation-1_0.html>.

   [REGISTRATION]
              "CIMD Software Statement Registration", n.d.,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              cimd-sw-stmt-registration>.

   [SIGNALS]  "Shared Signals Events for CIMD Software Statements",
              n.d., <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-cimd-sw-stmt-signals>.

   [UK-OPEN-BANKING]
              "Open Banking UK Dynamic Client Registration Specification
              v3.3", n.d., <https://openbankinguk.github.io/dcr-docs-
              pub/v3.3/dynamic-client-registration.html>.

Acknowledgments

   This mechanism began as a consumption section of [ISSUANCE] and was
   split out so that consumption can evolve separately from issuance.
   It draws on working-group discussion of Client ID Metadata Documents
   and attestation-based client authentication.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
